---
title: "Farming Income and the AgriStability and AgriInvest Programs Harmonized Guide – Chapter 5 – Capital cost allowance"
source: https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-07.html
last_modified: 2026-04-17
---
# Farming Income and the AgriStability and AgriInvest Programs Harmonized Guide – Chapter 5 – Capital cost allowance

## On this page…

- [Find out what capital cost allowance is](#ch5p10)

- [How much CCA you can claim](#ch5p20)

- [Form T1175, Farming – Calculation of Capital Cost Allowance (CCA) and Business‑use‑of‑home Expenses](#ch5p2090)

- [Classes of depreciable property](#classesdeprprop)

- [Special situations](#ch5p50)

## Find out what capital cost allowance is

You might acquire a depreciable property, such as a building, machinery, or equipment, to use in your farming business.

You cannot deduct the cost of the property when you calculate your net farming income for the year.

However, since these properties may wear out or become obsolete over time, you can deduct their cost over a period of several years. The deduction is called capital cost allowance (CCA).

You can usually claim CCA on a property when it becomes **available for use**.

To calculate your CCA claim, you will need to know the meaning of the following terms.

**Accelerated investment incentive property (AIIP)**–Property that is eligible for an enhanced first-year allowance under the CCA rules. The property may be eligible if it is acquired after November 20, 2018, and becomes available for use before 2028.

Under proposed changes, the property is only AIIP if it is acquired after November 20, 2018, and before 2025, and becomes available for use before 2028. Property acquired after 2024 generally is reaccelerated investment incentive property (RIIP) instead. For more information about RIIP, read the definition below.

For more information on AIIP, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/sole-proprietorships-partnerships/report-business-income-expenses/claiming-capital-cost-allowance/accelerated-investment-incentive.html).

**Reaccelerated investment incentive property (RIIP)** – under proposed changes, a RIIP is a property that is eligible for an enhanced first-year allowance under the CCA rules. The property may be eligible if it is acquired after 2024 and becomes available for use before 2034.

For more information on RIIP, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/sole-proprietorships-partnerships/report-business-income-expenses/claiming-capital-cost-allowance/accelerated-investment-incentive.html).

**Arm's length** refers to a relationship or a transaction between unrelated persons who act in their own separate interests. An arm's length transaction is generally a transaction that reflects ordinary commercial dealings between unrelated parties acting in their own separate interests.

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S1-F5-C1, Related Persons and Dealing at Arm's Length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/folio-5-transfer-income-property-rights-third-parties/income-tax-folio-s1-f5-c1-related-persons-dealing-arms-length.html).

**Related persons** are not considered to deal with each other at arm's length. Related persons include individuals connected by blood relationship, marriage, common-law partnership or adoption (legal or in fact). A corporation and another person or two corporations may also be related persons.

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S1-F5-C1, Related Persons and Dealing at Arm's Length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/folio-5-transfer-income-property-rights-third-parties/income-tax-folio-s1-f5-c1-related-persons-dealing-arms-length.html).

**Unrelated persons** may not be dealing with each other at arm's length at a particular time. Each case will depend upon its own facts. The following criteria will generally be used to determine if the parties to a transaction are not dealing at arm's length:

- whether there is a common mind that directs the bargaining for the parties to a transaction

- whether the parties to a transaction act in concert without separate interests; ("acting in concert" means, for example, that parties act with considerable interdependence on a transaction of common interest)

- whether there is de facto control of one party by the other because of, for example, advantage, authority or influence

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S1-F5-C1, Related Persons and Dealing at Arm's Length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/folio-5-transfer-income-property-rights-third-parties/income-tax-folio-s1-f5-c1-related-persons-dealing-arms-length.html).

**Available for use**– Property **other**than a building usually becomes available for use on the earlier of:

- the date you first use it to earn income

- the second tax year after the year you acquire the property

- the time just before you dispose of the property

- the time the property is delivered or made available to you and is capable of producing a saleable product or service

- the time the property is delivered and is capable of performing the function for which it was acquired only in respect of property acquired by you in the course of carrying on your farming or fishing business

If you buy a tractor and the seller delivers it to you in 2025, but it was not in working order until 2026, you cannot claim CCA on it until 2026. However, if you buy a tractor and the seller delivers it to you in working order in 2025, but you did not use it until 2026; you can still claim CCA in 2025 because it was available for use.

A **building** or **part** of a building usually becomes available for use on the earlier of the following dates:

- the date you start using 90% or more of the building in your business

- the second tax year after the year you acquire the building

- the time just before you dispose of the building

A building or part of a building you are **constructing**, **renovating**, **or altering** usually becomes available for use on the earlier of the following dates:

- the date you complete the construction, renovation, or alteration

- the date you start using 90% or more of the building in your business

- the second tax year after the year you acquire the building

- the time just before you dispose of the building

**Capital cost** – generally the taxpayer's full cost of acquiring the property. The capital cost of a property is usually the total of the following:

- the purchase price not including the cost of land, which is not depreciable (see [Land](#ch5p3045))

- the part of your legal, accounting, engineering, installation, and other fees that relate to buying or constructing the property (not including the part that applies to land)

- the cost of any additions or improvements you made to the property after you acquired it, if you did not claim these costs as a current expense (such as modifications to accommodate persons with disabilities)

- for a building, soft costs (such as interest, legal and accounting fees, and property taxes) related to the period you are constructing, renovating, or altering the building, if these expenses have not been deducted as current expenses

**Depreciable property** – the property on which you can claim CCA. It is usually capital property from a business or property. The capital cost can be written off as CCA over a number of years. You usually group depreciable properties into classes. Diggers, drills, and tools that cost $500 or more belong in Class 8. You have to base your CCA claim on the rate assigned to each class of property.

For the most common classes of depreciable properties you could use in your farming operation, see [Classes of depreciable property](#classesdeprprop), and the [Capital cost allowance (CCA) rates](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-16.html).

**Fair market value (FMV)** – generally, the highest dollar value that you can get for your property in an open and unrestricted market between an informed and willing buyer and an informed and willing seller who are dealing at arm's length with each other.

**Non-arm's length** generally refers to a relationship or transaction between persons who are related to each other.

However, a non-arm's length relationship might also exist between unrelated individuals, partnerships or corporations, depending on the circumstances. For more information, see the definition of [Arm's length](#ch5p1015).

**Proceeds of disposition** – the amounts you receive, or that we consider you to have received, when you dispose of your property (usually the selling price of the property). Proceeds of disposition is also defined to include, amongst other things, compensation you received for depreciable property that has been destroyed, expropriated, damaged, or stolen.

**Undepreciated capital cost (UCC)** – generally, the amount left after you deduct CCA from the capital cost of a depreciable property. Each year, the CCA you claim reduces the UCC of the property.

**Zero-emission passenger vehicle (ZEPV)** – means an automobile that is owned by the taxpayer and is included in Class 54 (but would otherwise be included in Class 10 or 10.1). The rules that apply to the definition of passenger vehicles apply to zero-emission passenger vehicles. A ZEPV does not include a leased passenger vehicle, but other vehicles that would otherwise qualify as a ZEPV if owned by the taxpayer are subject to the same leasing deduction restrictions as passenger vehicles.

**Zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) –** is a motor vehicle that is owned by the taxpayer and where all of the following conditions are met:

- is a plug-in hybrid with a battery capacity of at least 7kWh or is either fully:

    - electric

    - powered by hydrogen

- is acquired, and becomes available for use, after March 18, 2019, and before 2028

- has not been used or acquired for use for any purpose before it was acquired by the taxpayer

- is a vehicle in respect of which an amount has not been deducted as CCA and a terminal loss has not been claimed by another person or partnership

If the property was acquired after March 1, 2020, it may have been used, but a vehicle that was subject to a prior CCA or terminal loss claim cannot have been acquired by the taxpayer on a tax deferred "rollover" basis nor previously owned or acquired by the taxpayer or a non-arm's length person or partnership.

- is a vehicle for which:

    - an election has not been made to forgo the Class 54 or 55 treatment

    - assistance has not been provided by the Government of Canada under the new incentive announced on March 19, 2019

Under proposed changes, the period during which a motor vehicle needs to be acquired and become available for use is extended until before 2034.

## How much CCA you can claim

The CCA you can claim depends on the type of property you own and the date you acquired it. Group the depreciable property you own into classes. A specific rate of CCA generally applies to each class.

We explain the most common classes of property in [Classes of depreciable property](#classesdeprprop). We list most of the classes and their rates in the [Capital cost allowance (CCA) rates](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-16.html).

Base your CCA claim on your fiscal period ending in 2025, and not the calendar year.

### Basic information about CCA

To decide whether an amount is a current expense or a capital expense, see the [Current or capital expenses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-05.html).

For the most part, use the declining balance method to calculate your CCA, as it is the most common one. This means that you apply the CCA rate to the [capital cost](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-07.html). Over the life of the property, the rate is applied against the remaining balance. The remaining balance declines each year that you claim CCA.

Last year, Abeer bought a building for $60,000 to use in her business. On her income tax return for last year, she claimed CCA of $1,200 on the building. This year, Abeer bases her CCA claim on her balance of $58,800 ($60,000 – $1,200).

You do not have to claim the maximum amount of CCA in any given year. You can claim any amount you like, from zero to the maximum allowed for the year. If you do not have to pay income tax for the year, you may not want to claim CCA. Claiming CCA reduces the balance of the class by the amount of CCA claimed. As a result, the amount of CCA available for you to claim in future years will be reduced.

In the year you acquire a depreciable property, you can usually claim CCA only on one-half of your net additions to a class. We explain this half-year rule in [Column 15 – Adjustment for current-year additions subject to the half-year rule](#col15). The available-for-use rules may also affect the amount of CCA you can claim. For more information, see [Available for use](#ch5p1017).

You cannot claim CCA on most land or on living things such as trees, shrubs, or animals. However, you can claim CCA on timber limits, cutting rights, and wood assets. For more information, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-481, Timber Resource Property and Timber Limits](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it481-consolid.html), and [IT-501, Capital Cost Allowance – Logging Assets](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it501.html), and its Special Release, Archived IT-501SR.

If you receive income from a quarry, sand, or gravel pit, or a woodlot, you can claim a type of allowance known as a depletion allowance. For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S4-F11-C1, Meaning of Farming and Farming Business](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-4-businesses/series-4-businesses-folio-11-meaning-farming/income-tax-folio-s4-f11-c1-meaning-farming-farming-business.html), and [Interpretation Bulletin IT-492, Capital cost allowance – Industrial mineral mines](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it492.html).

If you claim CCA and you later dispose of the property, you may have to add an amount to your income as a recapture of CCA. Alternatively, you may be able to deduct an additional amount from your income as a terminal loss. For more information, see [Column 7 – UCC after additions and dispositions](#col7).

If you used depreciable property in 2025 that you used in your farming business before January 1, 1972, fill in "Area A – Part XVII properties (acquired before 1972)" on [Form T1175, Farming – Calculation of Capital Cost Allowance (CCA) and Business-use-of-home Expenses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1175.html).

If you are a member of a partnership, you cannot separately claim CCA for depreciable property owned by the partnership. Instead, the partnership can deduct CCA when calculating its net income or loss for the year. The partnership's net income or loss is then allocated to the partners and the partner's share is shown on the partner's [T5013 slip, Statement of Partnership Income](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t5013.html). If the partnership does not need to file a partnership information return, you will not get a T5013. If this is the case, fill in Area A of your form to report the CCA claim for the partnership.

#### You were asking?

**Q**. How do I calculate my CCA claim if I start a business and my first fiscal period is from June 1, 2025, to December 31, 2025?

**A**. Since your fiscal period is less than 365 days, you must prorate your CCA claim. Calculate your CCA using the rules we discuss in this chapter. However, base your CCA claim on the number of days in your fiscal period compared to 365 days.

In this case, your fiscal period is 214 days. Suppose you calculate your CCA to be $3,500. The amount of CCA you can claim is $2,052 ($3,500 × 214 ÷ 365).

### Immediate expensing incentive

The immediate expensing incentive has the following characteristics:

- An eligible person or partnership (EPOP) (see definition in [Guide T4002, Self employed Business, Professional, Commission, Farming, and Fishing Income](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4002.html)) may deduct the full cost of designated immediate expensing properties (DIEPs) up to $1.5 million per tax year, subject to specific limitations

- The deduction applies only to immediate expensing property (see definition in [Guide T4002, Self employed Business, Professional, Commission, Farming, and Fishing Income](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4002.html)) that you designated as a DIEP on the prescribed form you must file with the minister by the due date

- The deduction is available **only**for the year when the property becomes available for use

- The deduction is limited to $1.5 million per tax year:

    - The $1.5 million may be shared among associated members of a group. Each member must file an agreement on the prescribed form assigning a percentage to one or more of them for the year

    - The limit is also prorated for tax years shorter than 365 days

    - If the capital cost of the DIEP is more than $1.5 million and is included in more than one CCA class, the EPOP can decide which CCA class the immediate expensing deduction is attributed to

- The deduction is limited to the amount of income earned (before deducting CCA) from the business or property for which the DIEP is used

EPOPs with less than $1.5 million of eligible capital costs can't carry forward any unused annual immediate expensing limit.

As a result of this new CCA incentive, columns 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11,12, and 13 have been added to Area Aof Form T1175.

For more information on how this could affect your CCA calculations, go to [Expansion of the Eligibility for Tax Support for Business Investments](https://www.canada.ca/en/department-finance/news/2022/02/expansion-of-the-eligibility-for-tax-support-for-business-investments.html).

## Form T1175, Farming – Calculation of Capital Cost Allowance (CCA) and Business-use-of-home Expenses

### Business-use-of-home expenses

Use this section on [Form T1175](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1175.html) to list your expenses and any amount of CCA for the business use of your home. Include these expenses and any amount of CCA for business-use-of-home expenses on [Line 9896 – Other (specify)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-05.html) in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html) or [Form T1274](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1274.html). You can also report any business-use-of-home expense carry forward from a previous year on the chart. This chart is for information purposes and to help you make an adjustment at line 9934 if you have a loss in the year. For more information on this adjustment, see [Line 9934 – Adjustment to business-use-of-home expenses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-05.html).

### Area A – Calculation of CCA claim

Use Area A on [Form T1175](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1175.html) to calculate your CCA deduction. Add amounts ii and iii of the charts and enter the result on line 9936 in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html) or [Form T1274](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1274.html). If any part of the CCA is for business-use-of-home expenses, enter that part in the [Business-use-of-home expenses](#ch5p3010) section.

#### Column 1 – Class number

Enter in this column the class numbers of your properties. If this is the first year you are claiming CCA, see [Column 3 – Cost of additions in the year](#col3) below before completing column 1. If you claimed CCA last year, you can get the class numbers of your properties from last year's form.

We discuss the more common types of depreciable properties in [Classes of depreciable property](#classesdeprprop), and we list most of the classes and their rates in the [Capital cost allowance (CCA) rates](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-16.html) chart.

#### Column 2 – Undepreciated capital cost (UCC) at the start of the year

If this is the first year you are claiming CCA, skip this column. Otherwise, enter in this column the UCC for each class at the end of last year. Enter these amounts from column 19 from your 2024 form.

From your UCC at the start of 2025, subtract any investment tax credit (ITC) you claimed or were refunded in 2024. Also, subtract any 2024 ITC you carried back to a year before 2024.

In 2024, you may have received a GST/HST input tax credit for a passenger vehicle you used less than 90% of the time for your business. In this case, subtract the amount of the credit you got from your 2025 opening UCC. For more information, see [Grants, subsidies, and rebates](#ch5p5020).

In 2025, you may be claiming, carrying back or getting a refund of an ITC. If you still have depreciable property in the class, in 2026, you have to adjust the UCC of the class to which the property belongs. To do this, subtract the amount of the credit from the UCC at the start of 2026. When there is no property left in the class, report the amount of the ITC as income in 2026.

#### Column 3 – Cost of additions in the year

If you acquire or make improvements to depreciable property in the year, we consider them to be additions to the class in which the property belongs. You should:

- fill in [Area B](#ch5p3013) or Area [C](#ch5p3015) on your form, if applicable

- for each class, enter in column 3 of Area A's calculation table the amounts from column 5 for each class in Areas B and C

If a chart asks for the personal part of a property, this refers to the part you use personally, separate from the part you use for business. For example, if you use 25% of the building you live in for your farming business, your personal part is the remaining 75%. If you are using the administrative method for calculating CCA, see [Personal use of property](#ch5p5015).

Do not include the value of your labour in the cost of a property you build or improve. Include the cost of surveying or valuing a property you acquire. Remember that a property usually has to be [available for use](#ch5p1017) in the year before you can claim CCA.

If you received insurance proceeds to reimburse you for the **loss** or **destruction** of depreciable property, enter the amount you spent to **replace** the property in column 3 of Area A, as well as in Area B or C, whichever applies.

Include the amount of insurance proceeds considered as proceeds of disposition in column 5 of Area A, as well as in column 4 of Area D or E, whichever applies.

If you replaced lost or destroyed property, special rules for replacement property may apply. The replacement property must be acquired within two years of the end of the tax year in which it was lost or destroyed. For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F3-C1, Replacement Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/folio-3-capital-transactions/income-tax-folio-s3-f3-c1-replacement-property.html).

To find out if any of these special situations apply, see [Special situations](#ch5p50).

If you acquired a Class 14.1 property through a non-arm's length transfer, enter only 75% of the capital cost of the property if the following conditions apply:

- the property or a similar property was previously an eligible capital property owned by you or by a person or partnership not dealing at arm's length with you

- the UCC was increased in respect of an earlier disposition of the property or similar property by yourself or the non-arm's length person or partnership

For more information see [Insurance Proceeds](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-05.html).

Area B – Equipment additions in the year

List the details of all equipment (including motor vehicles) you acquired or improved in 2025. Group the equipment into the applicable classes, and put each class on a separate line.

Equipment you acquire to use in your business to earn income can include:

- cement mixer, snow blower and lawn mower, machinery, motor vehicles

- material for fishing

Enter on line 9925 the total business part of the cost of the equipment.

### Area C – Building additions in the year

List the details of all buildings you acquired or improved in 2025. Group the buildings into the applicable classes and put each class on a separate line.

Enter on line 9927 the total business part of the cost of the buildings. The cost includes the purchase price of the building, and any related expenses you should add to the capital cost of the building, such as legal fees, land transfer taxes, and mortgage fees.

#### Land

Generally, land is not a depreciable property. Therefore, you cannot claim CCA on its cost. If you acquire a farm property that includes both land and a building, enter in column 3 of Area C only the cost that relates to the building. To calculate the building's capital cost, you have to split any fees that relate to buying the property between the land and the building. Related fees may include legal and accounting fees.

Calculate the part of the related fees you can include in the capital cost of the building as follows:

(building value ÷ total purchase price) × legal, accounting or other fees = the part of the fees you can include in the building's cost

You do not have to split a fee if it relates only to the land, or only to the building. In this case, you would add the amount of the fee to the cost to which it relates; either the land or the building.

### Area F – Land additions and dispositions in the year

Enter on line 9923 the total cost of acquiring land in 2025. The cost includes the purchase price of the land plus any related expenses you should add to the capital cost of the land, such as legal fees, land transfer taxes, and mortgage fees.

You cannot claim CCA on land. Do not enter this amount in column 3 of Area A.

### Area H – Quota additions and dispositions in the year

Enter on line 9929 the total cost of acquiring quotas in 2025.

#### Column 4 – Cost of additions from column 3 that are DIEPs

For each class, enter in column 4 the amount that you designate as immediate expensing property (see definition in Guide T4002, Self employed Business, Professional, Commission, Farming, and Fishing Income) from the total cost included in column 3. The cost of DIEPs is included in column 3 in the total cost of additions in the year and shown separately in column 4. If you are part of an associated group of EPOPs, fill in Area G of your form as explained below.

Remember that property has to be available for use in the year before you can claim CCA.

### Area G – Agreement between associated eligible persons or partnerships (EPOPs)

Fill in this area if you are associated in the tax year with one or more EPOPs and you entered into an agreement with them under subsection 1104(3.3) of the Income Tax Regulations. The agreement assigns a percentage to one or more of you in the tax year so you can share the immediate expensing limit. For this agreement, individuals and partnerships are considered to be corporations.

List in the table the names of the associated EPOPs, including your business, their identification number and the percentage the agreement assigned to each of them.

Calculate the immediate expensing limit allocated to you by multiplying $1.5 million by the percentage assigned to your business in column 3. Enter the result at amount iv ofForm T1175.

If the total percentage assigned in column 3 exceeds 100%, the immediate expensing limit of the associated group is zero.

#### Column 5 – Proceeds of dispositions in the year

Enter the details of your 2025 dispositions on your form, as explained below.

If you disposed of depreciable property in the current tax year, you should:

- fill in Areas D and E for each class, if applicable

- enter in column 5 of the calculation table in Area A the amounts for each class from column 5 of Areas D and E

When completing the tables in Areas D and E, enter in column 3 of the table the lesser of:

- your [proceeds of disposition](#ch5p1027) minus any related expenses

- the capital cost of the property

If you dispose of Class 14.1 property and that property was eligible capital property before January 1, 2017, include only 75% of the lesser of the proceeds of disposition and the capital cost of the property. For more information on transitional rules for former eligible capital property, go to [Explanatory Notes – Eligible Capital Property](https://www.budget.canada.ca/2016/docs/tm-mf/notes-en.html)

If a chart asks for the personal part of a property, this refers to the part you use personally, separate from the part you use for business. For example, if you use 25% of the building you live in for business, your personal part is the other 75%. If you are using the administrative method for calculating CCA, see [Personal use of property](#ch5p5015).

If you received insurance proceeds to reimburse you for the loss or destruction of depreciable property, enter the amount you paid to **replace**the property in column 3 of Area A, as well as in Area B or C, whichever area applies.

Include the amount of insurance proceeds considered as **proceeds of disposition** in column 5 of Area A, as well as in column 4 of Area D or E, whichever applies. This could include compensation you receive for property that someone destroys, expropriates, steals, or damages.

For more information, see [Insurance proceeds](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-05.html).

If you dispose of a property for proceeds that are more than it cost you to acquire it (or you receive insurance proceeds for a property that was lost or destroyed that exceed the cost of the property), you will have a capital gain and possibly a recapture of CCA. You may be able to postpone or defer recognition of a capital gain or recapture of CCA in computing income if, among other things, the property disposed of is replaced within certain specified time limits. For more information, see [Replacement property](#ch5p5070) and [Income Tax Folio S3-F3-C1, Replacement Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/folio-3-capital-transactions/income-tax-folio-s3-f3-c1-replacement-property.html).

Special rules may apply if you dispose of a building for less than both its UCC and your capital cost. If this is the case, see [Special rules for disposing of a building in the year](#ch5p5040). If you dispose of a depreciable property for more than its cost, you will have a capital gain. For more information on capital gains, see [Chapter 7](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-10.html). You cannot have a capital loss when you sell depreciable property. However, you may have a terminal loss. For an explanation of terminal losses, see [Terminal loss](#ch5p3023).

For more information on proceeds of disposition, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F4-C1, General Discussion of Capital Cost Allowance](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans-folio-4-capital-cost-allowance/income-tax-folio-s3-f4-c1-general-discussion-capital-cost-allowance.html).

### Area D – Equipment dispositions in the year

List the details of all equipment (including motor vehicles) you disposed of in your 2025 fiscal period. Group the equipment into the applicable classes and put each class on a separate line. Enter on line 9926 the total business part of the proceeds of disposition of the equipment.

### Area E – Building dispositions in the year

List all buildings and leasehold interests you disposed of in the current tax year. Group the buildings and leasehold interests into the applicable classes, and put each class on a separate line. Enter at line 9928 the total business part of the proceeds of disposition of the buildings and leasehold interests.

### Area F – Land additions and dispositions in the year

Enter on line 9924 the total of all amounts you received or will receive for disposing of land in the fiscal period.

### Area H – Quota additions and dispositions in the year

Enter on line 9930 the total of all amounts you received or will receive for disposing of quotas in the fiscal period.

#### Column 6 – Proceeds of dispositions of DIEP

Enter in column 6 the total proceeds of disposition from column 5 of any DIEP that was acquired in the year.

Proceeds of dispositions of DIEP are included in column 5 in the total proceeds of dispositions in the year and shown separately in column 6.

#### Column 7 – UCC after additions and dispositions

The UCC amount for column 7 is the initial UCC amount at the start of the year in column 2 **plus** the cost of additions in column 3 **minus** the proceeds of dispositions in column 5.

You cannot claim CCA when the amount in column 7 is:

- negative (see [Recapture of CCA](#ch5p3021))

- positive and you do not have any property left in that class at the end of your 2025 fiscal period (see [Terminal loss](#ch5p3023))

In either case, enter "0" in column 22.

#### Recapture of CCA

If the amount in column 7 is negative, you have a recapture of CCA. Enter your recapture on line 9600 in the "Income" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html) or [T1274](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1274.html).

A recapture of CCA can happen if the proceeds from the sale of depreciable property are more than the total of the following amounts:

- the UCC of the class at the start of the period

- the capital cost of any new additions during the period

A recapture of CCA can also occur, for example, when you get a government grant or claim an investment tax credit.

In some cases, you may be able to postpone a recapture of CCA. For example, you may sell a property and replace it with a similar one, someone may expropriate your property, or you may transfer property to a corporation, a partnership, or your child.

#### Terminal loss

If the amount in column 7 is positive and you no longer own any property in that class, you may have a terminal loss. More precisely, you may have a terminal loss when, at the end of a fiscal period, there is no longer any property in the class, but there is still an amount you have not deducted as CCA. You can usually subtract this terminal loss from your gross farming income in the year you disposed of the depreciable property. Enter your terminal loss on line 9896 in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html) or [T1274](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1274.html).

For more information on recapture of CCA and terminal loss, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F4-C1, General Discussion of Capital Cost Allowance](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans-folio-4-capital-cost-allowance/income-tax-folio-s3-f4-c1-general-discussion-capital-cost-allowance.html).

If you dispose of a property that you used for both business and personal use, you must calculate the allowable part of the recapture of CCA and terminal loss. For more information, see [Personal use of property](#ch5p5015).

The rules for recapture of CCA and terminal loss do not apply to passenger vehicles in Class 10.1 unless they are DIEPs. To calculate your CCA claim, see the comments in [Column 19 – Base amount for CCA](#col19).

#### Column 8 – UCC of DIEP

Enter in column 8 the cost of DIEP additions from column 4 **minus** the proceeds of dispositions of DIEP from column 6. If the result of column 4 **minus** column 6 exceeds the amount from column 7, enter in column 8 the amount from column 7. If the amount from column 7 is negative, enter "0."

Since immediate expensing is only available for DIEP that becomes available in the year, there can be no UCC of DIEP from the previous year.

#### Column 9 – Immediate expensing amount for DIEPs

Enter the immediate expensing amount you choose to apply to each class.

The total immediate expensing amount must be equal to or less than the lesser of the following amounts:

- $1.5 million, if you are not associated with any other EPOP in the year

- the UCC of the DIEP before any CCA deductions in the year

- the amount of income, if any, before any CCA deductions, earned from the source of income that is a business or property for which the relevant DIEP is used for the tax year

#### Column 10 – Cost of remaining additions after immediate expensing

Column 10 represents the cost of additions after applying the immediate expensing deduction to DIEP. The column includes the cost of properties that are not immediate expensing property, are immediate expensing property not designated, or are DIEPs that is more than the immediate expensing deduction for the fiscal period for each class.

To calculate this amount, **subtract** the immediate expensing amount in column 9 from the total cost of additions in column 3.

#### Column 11 – Cost of remaining additions from column 10 that are AIIPs or ZEVs acquired before 2025

For each class, enter from column 10 the total cost of properties that are accelerated investment incentive properties (AIIPs) or properties included in Classes 54 to 56 that you acquired before 2025 and that became available for use during the year. They are included in column 10and shown separately in column 11.

An AIIP generally means a property, other than zero-emission vehicles and automotive equipment included in Classes 54 to 56, acquired after November 20, 2018, and that becomes available for use before 2028.

Under proposed changes, to be an AIIP, a property has to be acquired before 2025.

If you did not acquire any AIIPs, ZEVs or Class 56 properties, enter"0"in this column.

For more details, see [Class 54 (30%) and Class 55 (40%) – Zero-emission vehicles](#class54and55), [Class 56 (30%)](#class56) and [Accelerated investment incentive property (AIIP)](#ch5p1013).

#### Column 12 – Cost of remaining additions from column 10 that are RIIPs or ZEVs acquired after 2024

Under proposed changes, for each class, enter from column 10 the total cost of properties that are reaccelerated investment incentive properties (RIIPs) or properties included in Classes 54 to 56 that you acquired after 2024 and that became available for use in 2025. They are included in column 10 and shown separately in column 12.

A RIIP generally means a property, other than zero emission vehicles and automotive equipment included in Classes 54 to 56, acquired after 2024, and that becomes available for use before 2034.

If you did not acquire any RIIPs, ZEVs, or Class 56 properties, enter "0" in this column.

For more details, see [Class 54 (30%) and Class 55 (40%) – Zero-emission vehicles](#class54and55)**,** [Class 56 (30%)](#class56), and the [Reaccelerated investment incentive property](#RIIPUnder).

#### Column 13 – Remaining UCC after immediate expensing

Column 13 represents the remaining portion of UCC after applying the immediate expensing deduction. The remaining portion of UCC will be used to calculate the regular CCA deduction.

**Subtract** the amount in column 9 from the amount in column 7 and enter the difference.

#### Column 14 – Proceeds of dispositions available to reduce additions of AIIPs, RIIPs and ZEVs

This column calculates the adjustments under certain circumstances to the additions for the year where there is also a disposition in the year.

When an AIIP and a property that is neither an AIIP nor, under proposed changes, a RIIP of the same class are purchased during the year and a disposition occurs, the disposition first reduces the UCC of the property that is neither an AIIP nor, under proposed changes, a RIIP before reducing the UCC of the AIIP.

Under proposed changes, when a RIIP and a property that is neither a RIIP nor an AIIP of the same class are purchased during the year and a disposition occurs, the disposition also reduces the UCC of the property that is neither a RIIP nor an AIIP before reducing the UCC of the RIIP.

To determine which part of your proceeds of dispositions, if any, will reduce the cost of your AIIP, ZEV, Class 56, or under proposed changes, RIIP additions, take the proceeds of disposition in column 5 minus the cost of remaining additions in the year in column 10 plus the cost of remaining additions of AIIPs, ZEVs or Class 56 properties acquired before 2025 in column 11 plus, under proposed changes, the cost of remaining additions of RIIPs, ZEVs, or Class 56 properties acquired after 2024 in column 12. If the result is negative, enter "0."

If you did not acquire any AIIPs, ZEVs or Class 56 properties, or, under proposed changes, RIIPs, you do not need to use this column.

#### Column 15 – UCC adjustment for current-year additions of AIIPs and ZEVs acquired before 2025

This column calculates the enhanced UCC amount used to determine the additional CCA for AIIPs, ZEVs or Class 56 properties acquired before 2025.

For this column, **reduce**the cost of AIIP, ZEV or Class 56 additions in column 11 by the proceeds of disposition available to reduce the AIIP, ZEV, Class 56, or, under proposed changes, RIIP additions as calculated in column 14. **Multiply**the result by the following factor:

- 1/2 for Classes 43.2 and 53

- 7/8 for Class 55

- 1 1/2 for Classes 43.1, 54 and 56

- 0 for the remaining AIIPs

These factors will change for properties that become available for use after 2025 and the incentive is completely phased out for properties that become available for use after 2027.

Under proposed changes, if property included in Class 44, 46, or 50 is acquired and becomes available for use after April 15, 2024, the following factors apply:

- 2 1/3 for Class 46

- 3 for Class 44

- 9/11 for Class 50

These factors will change for Class 44, 46, or 50 properties that become available for use after 2026.

If you did not acquire any AIIPs, ZEVs or Class 56 properties, enter "0" in this column.

#### Column 16 – Proceeds of dispositions available to reduce additions of RIIPs and ZEVs acquired after 2024

Under proposed changes, this column calculates the adjustments under certain circumstances to the additions for the year where there is also a disposition in the year.

Under an administrative position, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) allows the proceeds of disposition available to reduce AIIP, RIIP, and ZEV additions to reduce the UCC of the AIIP and ZEV acquired before 2025 before reducing the UCC of the RIIP and ZEV acquired after 2024.

To determine which part of your proceeds of dispositions, if any, will reduce the cost of your RIIP, ZEV, or Class 56 additions acquired after 2024, subtract the cost of remaining additions that are AIIPs or ZEVs acquired before 2025 in column 11 from the proceeds of disposition available to reduce additions of AIIPs, RIIPs, and ZEVs in column 14. If the result is negative, enter "0."

If you did not acquire any RIIPs, ZEVs, or Class 56 properties, you do not need to use this column.

#### Column 17 – UCC adjustment for current year additions of RIIPs and ZEVs acquired after 2024

Under proposed changes, this column calculates the enhanced UCC amount used to determine the additional CCA for RIIPs, ZEVs, and Class 56 properties acquired after 2024.

For this column, reduce the cost of RIIP, ZEV, or Class 56 additions in column 12 by the proceeds of disposition available to reduce the RIIP, ZEV, or Class 56acquired after 2024 additions as calculated in column 16. Multiply the result by the following factors:

- 3 for Class 44

- 2 1/3 for Classes 43.1, 46, 54, and 56

- 1 1/2 for Class 55

- 1 for Class 53

- 9/11 for Class 50

- 0 for Classes 12, 13, 14, 15, and 59, as well as properties that are Canadian vessels included in paragraph 1100(1)(v) of the Income Tax Regulations

- 1/2 for the remaining RIIPs

For property that will be acquired after 2025 and included in Class 43, but that would have been included in Class 53 if it had been acquired in 2025, the factor will be 2 1/3. These factors will change for properties that will become available for use after 2029 and the incentive will be completely phased out for properties that will become available for use after 2033.

If you did not acquire any RIIPs, ZEVs, or Class 56 properties, enter "0" in this column.

#### Column 18 – Adjustment for current-year additions subject to the half-year rule

Generally, in the year you acquire or make additions to a property, you can usually claim CCA on half of your net additions. We call this the half-year rule. You calculate your CCA only on the net adjusted amount. For example, if before November 20, 2018, you acquired a property for $30,000, you would base your CCA claim on $15,000 ($30,000 × 50%) in the year you acquired the property. However, the half-year rule does not apply to AIIPs, ZEVs, Class 56 properties, or, under proposed changes, RIIPs.

Calculate the net first-year additions that are subject to the half-year rule by taking the cost of remaining additions in column 10 minus AIIP, ZEV and Class 56acquired before 2025 additions in column 11 minus, under proposed changes, RIIP, ZEV, and Class 56 acquired after 2024 additions in column 12minus proceeds of dispositions in column 5. Enter 50% of the result in column 18. If the result is negative, enter "0."

There are circumstances where the half-year rule does not apply. For example, in a [non-arm's length](#ch5p1025) transaction you may buy depreciable property that the seller continuously owned from the day that is at least 364 days before the end of your 2025 fiscal period to the day the property was acquired. However, if you transfer personal property, such as a car or a personal computer, into your business, the half-year rule applies to the particular property transferred.

Also, some properties are not subject to the half-year rule. Some examples are those in Classes 13, 14, 23, 24, 27, 34, and 52, as well as most of those in Class 12, such as small tools. The half-year rule **does not apply** when the [available for use](#ch5p1017) rules denies a CCA claim until the second tax year after you acquire the property.

For more information on the special rules that apply to Class 13, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-464, *Capital Cost Allowance – Leasehold Interests*](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it464r.html). For more information on the half-year rule, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F4-C1, General Discussion of Capital Cost Allowance](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans-folio-4-capital-cost-allowance/income-tax-folio-s3-f4-c1-general-discussion-capital-cost-allowance.html).

#### Column 19 – Base amount for CCA

The base amount for CCA is the remaining UCC amount after additions, dispositions, and the current-year adjustments. This is the amount in column 13 plus the amount in column 15 plus, under proposed changes, the amount in column 17 minus the amount in column 18. The CCA rate is applied to this amount.

For a Class 10.1 vehicle you disposed of in your 2025 fiscal period, you may be able to claim 50% of the CCA that would be allowed if you still owned the vehicle at the end of your 2025 fiscal period. This is known as the**half-year rule on sale**.

You can use the half-year rule on sale if, at the end of your 2024 fiscal period, you owned the Class 10.1 vehicle you disposed of in 2025. If this applies to you, enter 50% of the amount for Class 10.1 vehicles from column 2 in column 19.

#### Column 20 – CCA rate (%)

Enter the prescribed CCA rate (percentage) for each property class you have listed in column 1.

For information on certain kinds of property, see [Classes of depreciable property](#classesdeprprop). For a list of rates, see [Capital cost allowance (CCA) rates](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-13.html).

#### Column 21 – CCA for the year

In column 21, enter the CCA you want to deduct for 2025. You can claim the CCA for the year up to the maximum amount allowed. In Area A, you calculate the maximum amount for column 21 by multiplying the amount in column 19 by the amount in column 20, then adding the amount in column 9.

In your first year of business, you may have to prorate your CCA claim. See [You were asking?](#ch5p20955)

Add the amounts in column 21 and enter the total on amount ii. For Part XVII assets, add the amounts in column 6 and enter the total on amount iii. Enter the total of amounts ii and iii, **minus** any CCA for business-use-of-home expenses, on line 9936 of the "Expenses" section of [Form T1163](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1163.html) or [T1164](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1164.html). If you are a co-owner, enter only your share of the CCA. To find out how to calculate your CCA claim if you are using the property for both business and personal use, see [Personal use of property](#ch5p5015). Enter any CCA for business-use-of-home expenses on page 1 of [Form T1175](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1175.html). For more information, see [Business-use-of-home expenses](#ch5p3010).

#### Column 22 – UCC at the end of the year

The final result in column 22 is the UCC at the end of the year. This is the result of the UCC after additions and dispositions in column 7, **minus** the amount for CCA claimed for the year in column 21. The amount in column 22 is the starting UCC balance you will use when you calculate your CCA claim next year. Next year, enter this amount in column 2. If you have a terminal loss or a recapture of CCA, enter "0" in column 22.

The example at the end of this chapter sums up CCA.

## Classes of depreciable property

In this part, we discuss the more common classes of depreciable farm property and the rates that apply to each class.

### Class 1 (4%)

A **building** may belong to Class 1, 3, or 6, depending on what the building is made of and the date you acquired it. You also include in these classes the parts that make up the building, such as:

- electrical wiring

- lighting fixtures

- plumbing

- sprinkler systems

- heating equipment

- air-conditioning equipment (other than window units)

- elevators

- escalators

Land is not depreciable property. Therefore, when you acquire property, only include the cost related to the building in Area A and Area C. Enter on line 9923 in Area F the cost of all land additions in 2024. For more information, see [Area F – Land additions and dispositions in the year](#ch5p5075) and [Column 3 – Cost of additions in the year](#col3).

For more information, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-79, Capital Cost Allowance – Buildings or Other Structures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it79r3.html).

Class 1 includes most buildings acquired after 1987, unless they specifically belong in another class. Class 1 also includes the cost of certain additions or alterations you made to a Class 1 building or certain buildings of another class after 1987.

The CCA rate for eligible **non-residential buildings** acquired by a taxpayer after March 18, 2007, and used in Canada to manufacture or process goods for sale or lease, includes an additional allowance of 6% for a total rate of 10%. The CCA rate for other eligible **non-residential buildings**includes an additional allowance of 2% for a total rate of 6%.

To be eligible for one of the additional allowances, you must elect to put a building in a separate class. To make the election, attach a letter to your return for the tax year in which you acquired the building. If you do not file an election to put it in a separate class, the 4% rate will apply.

The additional allowance applies to buildings acquired after March 18, 2007, (including a new building, if any part of it is acquired after March 18, 2007, when the building was under construction on March 19, 2007) that have not been used or acquired for use before March 19, 2007.

To be eligible for the 6% additional allowance, at least 90% of a building (measured by square footage) must be used in Canada for the designated purpose at the end of the tax year. Manufacturing and processing buildings that do not meet the 90% use test will be eligible for the additional 2% allowance if at least 90% of the building is used in Canada for non-residential purposes at the end of the tax year.

#### Class 3 (5%)

Most buildings acquired before 1988 are included in Class 3 or Class 6.

If you acquired a building before 1990 that does not fall into Class 6, you can include it in Class 3 with a CCA rate of 5% if one of the following applies:

- you acquired the building under the terms of a written agreement entered into before June 18, 1987

- the building was under construction by you, or for you, on June 18, 1987

Include in Class 3 the cost of any additions or alterations made after 1987 to a Class 3 building that does not exceed the lesser of the following two amounts:

- $500,000

- 25% of the building's capital cost (including the cost of additions or alterations to the building included in Class 3, Class 6, or Class 20 before 1988)

Any amount that exceeds the lesser amount above is included in Class 1.

#### Class 6 (10%)

Include a building in Class 6 with a CCA rate of 10% if it is made of frame, log, stucco on frame, galvanized iron, or corrugated metal. In addition, one of the following conditions has to apply:

- you acquired the building before 1979

- the building is used to gain or produce income from farming

- the building has no footings or other base supports below ground level

If any of the above conditions apply, you also add the full cost of all additions and alterations to the building to Class 6.

If none of the above conditions apply, include the building in Class 6 if one of the following conditions applies:

- you entered into a written agreement before 1979 to acquire the building, and the footings or other base supports of the building were started before 1979

- you started construction of the building before 1979 (or it was started under the terms of a written agreement you entered into before 1979), and the footings or other base supports of the building were started before 1979

Also include in Class 6 certain greenhouses and fences.

For additions or alterations to such a building:

- add to Class 6 the first $100,000 of additions or alterations made after 1978

- add to Class 3:

    - the part of the cost of all additions or alterations over $100,000 made after 1978 and before 1988

    - the part of the cost of additions or alterations over $100,000 made after 1987, but only up to $500,000 or 25% of the cost of the building, whichever is less

- add to Class 1 any additions or alterations over these limits

For more information, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-79, Capital Cost Allowance – Buildings or Other Structures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it79r3.html).

#### Class 8 (20%)

Class 8 with a CCA rate of 20% includes certain property that is not included in another class. Examples are furniture, appliances, and tools costing $500 or more per tool, some fixtures, machinery, outdoor advertising signs, refrigeration equipment, and other equipment you use in the business.

Photocopiers and electronic communications equipment, such as fax machines and electronic telephone equipment, are also included in Class 8.

If this equipment costs $1,000 or more, you can elect to have it included in a separate class. The CCA rate will not change but a separate CCA deduction can now be calculated for a five year period. When all the property in the class is disposed of, the UCC is fully deductible as a terminal loss. Any UCC balance remaining in the separate class at the end of the fifth year has to be transferred back to the general class in which it would otherwise belong. To make an election, attach a letter to your income tax return for the tax year in which you acquired the property.

Include data network infrastructure equipment and systems software for that equipment acquired before March 23, 2004, in Class 8. If acquired after March 22, 2004, include it in Class 46. See [Class 46 (30%)](#class46).

Include buildings you use to store fresh fruit or vegetables at a controlled temperature, by or for the persons by whom they were grown, in Class 8 instead of Class 1, Class 3, or Class 6. Also include in Class 8 any buildings you use to store silage.

### Class 10 (30%)

Class 10 with a CCA rate of 30% includes general purpose electronic data processing equipment (commonly called computer hardware) and systems software for that equipment, including ancillary data processing equipment, if you acquired them either:

- before March 23, 2004

- after March 22, 2004, and before 2005, and you made an election

Class 10 also includes motor vehicles, as well as some passenger vehicles.

Include your passenger vehicle in Class 10 unless it meets a Class 10.1 condition. List each Class 10.1 vehicle separately.

Eligible [zero-emission vehicles](#ch5p1033) are included in Class 54.

### Class 10.1 (30%)

Your [passenger vehicle](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-05.html) can belong in either Class 10 or Class 10.1.

To determine the class your passenger vehicle belongs in, you have to use the cost of the vehicle before you add the GST/HST or the PST.

Include your passenger vehicle in Class 10.1 if you bought it in 2025 and it cost more than $38,000 before tax. List each Class 10.1 vehicle separately.

The capital cost limits for a Class 10.1 passenger vehicle are as follows:

- $30,000 for vehicles acquired before 2022, plus the GST/HST, or PST

- $34,000 for vehicles acquired in 2022, plus the GST/HST, or PST

- $36,000 for vehicles acquired in 2023, plus the GST/HST, or PST

- $37,000 for vehicles acquired in 2024, plus the GST/HST, or PST

- $38,000 for vehicles acquired in 2025, plus the GST/HST, or PST.

Use the GST rate of 5% and the appropriate PST rate for your province or territory. If your province participates in HST, use the appropriate HST rate. For more information on the GST and the HST, see [Guide RC4022, General Information for GST/HST Registrants](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4022.html).

Vivienne owns a farming business. On June 21, 2025, she bought two passenger vehicles to use in her farming business. The PST rate for her province is 8%. Vivienne kept the following records for 2025:

|  | Cost | GST | PST | Total |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Vehicle 1 | $39,000 | $1,950 | $3,120 | $44,070 |

| Vehicle 2 | $28,000 | $1,400 | $2,240 | $31,640 |

Vivienne puts Vehicle 1 in Class 10.1, since she bought it in 2025 and it cost her more than $37,000. Before Vivienne enters an amount in column 3 of Area B, she has to calculate the GST and PST on $37,000. She does this as follows:

- GST at 5% of $38,000 = $1,900

- PST at 8% of $38,000 = $3,040

Therefore, Vivienne's capital cost is $42,940 ($37,000 + $1,900 + $3,040). She enters this amount in column 3 of Area B.

Vivienne puts Vehicle 2 into Class 10, since she bought it in 2025, and it did not cost her more than $37,000. Vivienne's capital cost is $31,640 ($28,000 + $1,400 + $2,240). She enters this amount in column 3 of Area B.

Under the immediate expensing rules, if you dispose of a passenger vehicle acquired after April 18, 2021, to a person or partnership with whom you deal at arm's length, and its cost exceeds the capital cost limit, the proceeds of disposition will be adjusted based on a factor equal to the capital cost as a proportion of the actual cost of the vehicle.

Eligible [zero-emission vehicles](#ch5p1033) are included in Class 54.

#### Class 12 (100%)

Class 12 includes property such as tools, medical or dental instruments, and kitchen utensils that cost less than $500 and were acquired on or after May 2, 2006.

Class 12 includes china, cutlery, linen, and uniforms. It also includes video cassettes, video laser discs, and digital video disks that you rent and do not expect to rent to any one person for more than 7 days in a 30-day period.

Most small tools in Class 12 are not subject to the half-year rule. They are fully deductible in the year of purchase. If the tool costs $500 or more, include it in Class 8 with a CCA rate of 20%.

Class 12tools that are subject to the half-year rule include dies, jigs, patterns, moulds or lasts, and the cutting or shaping part of a machine. For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F4-C1, General Discussion of Capital Cost Allowance](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans-folio-4-capital-cost-allowance/income-tax-folio-s3-f4-c1-general-discussion-capital-cost-allowance.html).

Include in Class 12 with a CCA rate of 100% computer software that is not systems software. Software in Class 12 is subject to the half-year rule.

Class 12 specifically excludes electronic communication devices and electronic data processing equipment.

#### Class 14 (5%)

Class 14 includes patents, franchises, concessions, or licences for a limited period. Your CCA is whichever of the following amounts is less:

- the total of the capital cost of each property spread out over the life of the property

- the undepreciated capital cost to the taxpayer as of the end of the tax year of property of that class

#### Class 14.1 (5%)

Starting January 1, 2017, include in Class 14.1 property that:

- is goodwill

- was eligible capital property immediately before January 1, 2017, and is owned at the beginning of that day

- is acquired after 2016, other than:

    - property that is tangible or corporeal property

    - property that is not acquired for the purpose of gaining or producing income from business

    - property in respect of which any amount is deductible (other than as a result of being included in Class 14.1) in computing the income from the business

    - an interest in a trust

    - an interest in a partnership

    - a share, bond, debenture, mortgage, hypothecary claim, note, bill or other similar property

    - property that is an interest in, or for civil law a right in, or a right to acquire, a property described in any of the above sub-bullets

Examples for farming are milk and egg quotas.

For tax years that end prior to 2027, properties included in Class 14.1 that were acquired before January 1, 2017, will be depreciable at a CCA rate of 7% instead of 5%. Transitional rules will apply.

Properties that are included in Class 14.1 and acquired after 2016 will be included in this class at a 100% inclusion rate with a 5% CCA rate on a declining-balance basis and the existing CCA rules will normally apply.

For more information about the new Class 14.1 and the transitional rules, see [Explanatory Notes – Eligible Capital Property](https://www.budget.canada.ca/2016/docs/tm-mf/notes-en.html).

Property in this new Class 14.1 is excluded from the definition of capital property for GST/HST purposes.

### Class 43.1 (30%) and Class 43.2 (50%) – Clean energy equipment

Classes 43.1 and 43.2 provide accelerated CCA rates for qualifying investments in clean energy generation and energy conservation equipment. Most of the equipment described in Class 43.1 (30% CCA rate) qualifies under Class 43.2 (50% CCA rate) when you acquire the property before 2025.

For property that becomes available for use after 2024, access to Classes 43.1 and 43.2 for certain fossil-fuelled and low efficiency waste-fuelled electrical generation equipment is restricted by:

- removing some property that are currently included in these classes (for example, fossil fuelled cogeneration systems)

- narrowing the eligibility by imposing heat rate thresholds for others (for example, producer gas generating equipment)

Under proposed changes, for certain property that is acquired and becomes available for use after November 17, 2025, access to Class 43.1 is restricted by:

- clarifying that some properties are excluded from this class (for example, property used to charge vehicles or other automotive equipment)

- adding new conditions that transmission equipment must meet to be eligible

These properties may benefit from the enhanced first-year CCA that previously provided full expensing of the property in the year of acquisition. This enhanced first-year CCA is now being gradually phased-out for property that becomes available for use after 2023 and before 2028.

Under proposed changes, this enhanced first-year CCA only applies to properties acquired before 2025. For properties acquired after 2024, the measure providing full expensing for clean energy generation and conservation equipment under Class 43.1 is reinstated. To be eligible, qualifying property has to be acquired on or after January 1, 2025, and become available for use before 2034. There will be a four year phase out for property that will become available for use after 2029.

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F8-C2, Tax incentives for Clean Energy Equipment](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plan-folio-8-resource-properties/income-tax-folio-s3-f8-c2-tax-incentives-clean-energy-equipment.html).

For more information on the enhanced first-year CCA, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](#ch5p1013).

### Class 44 (25%)

Include in Class 44patents or a licence to use patents for a limited or unlimited period that was acquired after April 26, 1993. However, you can elect not to include such property in Class 44 by attaching a letter to the return for the year you acquired the property. In the letter, indicate the property you do not want to include in Class 44. The property you elect not to include in Class 44 will be included in Class 14 instead, if it has a limited life. If it has an unlimited life, it may qualify as an eligible capital property (before 2017) or as a Class 14.1 property (after 2016).

Under proposed changes, new additions of Class 44 property are eligible for an enhanced first-year deduction of 100%. This applies to property acquired after April 15, 2024, and that becomes available for use before 2027. Property that becomes available for use in 2027 will continue to benefit from the AII or RII.

The AII and RII restrictions also apply to these properties. For more information on these restrictions, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/sole-proprietorships-partnerships/report-business-income-expenses/claiming-capital-cost-allowance/accelerated-investment-incentive.html).

### Class 45 (45%)

Include general-purpose electronic data processing equipment (commonly called computer hardware) and systems software for that equipment, including associated data processing equipment, in Class 45 with a CCA rate of 45% if you acquired them after March 22, 2004, and before March 19, 2007.

If you acquired the equipment or software before 2005 and made the separate Class 8 election, as discussed in theClass 8 note, the property does not qualify for the 45 % rate.

### Class 46 (30%)

Include in Class 46 with a CCA rate of 30% data network infrastructure equipment and systems software for that equipment if they were acquired after March 22, 2004. If they were acquired before March 23, 2004, include them in Class 8. See [Class 8 (20%)](#ch5clss8).

Under proposed changes, new additions of Class 46 property are eligible for an enhanced first-year deduction of 100%.This applies to property acquired after April 15, 2024, and that becomes available for use before 2027. Property that becomes available for use in 2027 will continue to benefit from the AII or RII.

The AII and RII restrictions also apply to these properties. For more information on these restrictions, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/sole-proprietorships-partnerships/report-business-income-expenses/claiming-capital-cost-allowance/accelerated-investment-incentive.html).

### Class 50 (55%)

Include in Class 50 with a CCA rate of 55% property acquired after March 18, 2007, that is general-purpose electronic data processing equipment and systems software for that equipment, including ancillary data processing equipment.

Do not include property that is included in Class 52 or that is mainly or is used mainly as:

1. electronic process control or monitor equipment

2. electronic communications control equipment

3. systems software for equipment referred to in a) or b)

4. data handling equipment (other than data handling equipment that is ancillary to general-purpose electronic data processing equipment)

Under proposed changes, new additions of Class 50 property are eligible for an enhanced first-year deduction of 100%. This applies to property acquired after April 15, 2024, and that becomes available for use before 2027. Property that becomes available for use in 2027 will continue to benefit from the AII or RII.

The AII and RII restrictions also apply to these properties. For more information on these restrictions, go to [Accelerated investment incentive](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/sole-proprietorships-partnerships/report-business-income-expenses/claiming-capital-cost-allowance/accelerated-investment-incentive.html).

### Class 52 (100%)

Include in Class 52 with a CCA rate of 100% (with no half-year rule) general purpose electronic data processing equipment (commonly called computer hardware) and systems software for that equipment, including ancillary data-processing equipment if acquired after January 27, 2009, and before February 1, 2011.

Do not include property that is mainly or is used mainly as:

1. electronic process control or monitor equipment

2. electronic communications control equipment

3. systems software for equipment referred to in a) or b)

4. data handling equipment (other than equipment that is ancillary to general-purpose electronic data processing equipment)

To qualify for this rate the asset must also meet the following conditions:

- be located in Canada

- not have been used, or acquired for use, for any purpose before it was acquired by the taxpayer

- be acquired by the taxpayer either:

    - for use in a business carried on by the taxpayer in Canada or to earn income from property located in Canada

    - for lease by the taxpayer to a lessee for the lessee to use in a business the lessee carried on in Canada or to earn income from property located in Canada

### Class 54 (30%) and Class 55 (40%) – Zero-emission vehicles

There are two CCA classes for [zero-emission vehicles](#ch5p1033) acquired after March 18, 2019. Class 54 was created for zero-emission vehicles that would otherwise be included in Class 10 or 10.1, with the same CCA rate of 30%. Class 55 was created for zero-emission vehicles otherwise included in Class 16 with the same CCA rate of 40%. The CCA still applies on a declining-balance basis.

An enhanced first-year CCA deduction with the following phase-out period is available:

- 100% after March 18, 2019, and before 2024

- 75% after 2023 and before 2026

- 55% after 2025 and before 2028

Under proposed changes, this phase-out period only applies to property acquired before 2025.

The enhanced first year CCA deduction is reinstated for zero-emission vehicles under Classes 54 and 55 acquired after 2024. To be eligible, qualifying property has to be acquired and become available for use on or after January 1, 2025, and before 2034. The reinstated deduction is subject to the following phase-out period:

- 100% on or after January 1, 2025, and before 2030

- 75% after 2029 and before 2032

- 55% after 2031 and before 2034

For the enhanced first-year allowance, the following steps should be taken before calculating the CCA:

- increase the net capital cost addition to the class as follows

    - For Class 54:

          - if the property becomes available for use before 2028 and, under proposed changes, is acquired before 2025, increase the capital cost addition by an amount equal to:

                  - 2 1/3 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use before 2024

                  - 1 1/2 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use in 2024 or 2025

                  - 5/6 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use after 2025 and before 2028

          - under proposed changes, if the property is acquired after 2024 and becomes available for use before 2034, increase the capital cost addition by an amount equal to:

                  - 2 1/3 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use before 2030

                  - 1 1/2 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use in 2030 or 2031

                  - 5/6 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use after 2031 and before 2034

    - For Class 55:

          - if the property becomes available for use before 2028 and, under proposed changes, is acquired before 2025, increase the capital cost addition by an amount equal to:

                  - 1 1/2 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use before 2024

                  - 7/8 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use in 2024 or 2025

                  - 3/8 times the net addition to the class for property that became available for use after 2025 and before 2028

          - under proposed changes, if the property is acquired after 2024 and becomes available for use before 2034, increase the capital cost addition by an amount equal to:

                  - 1 1/2 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use before 2030

                  - 7/8 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use in 2030 or 2031

                  - 3/8 times the net addition to the class for property that becomes available for use after 2031 and before 2034

- suspend the existing CCA half-year rule

Multiply the result by the prescribed CCA rate of 30% for Class 54 and 40% for Class 55.

The CCA will be applicable on any remaining balance in these classes using the specific rate for the class.

A taxpayer may elect to not include in Class 54 or 55 a vehicle that would otherwise be a zero-emission vehicle or a zero-emission passenger vehicle. When such an election is filed, the vehicle will no longer be considered to be a zero-emission vehicle or a zero-emission passenger vehicle. As a result, the vehicle will be included in its usual CCA Class 10, 10.1 or 16 as the case may be. Such vehicles will not qualify for the enhanced first-year CCA under the ZEV rules. However, those vehicles that will be included in Class 10, 10.1 or 16, may be eligible for the immediate expensing incentive or enhanced CCA under the AIIP rules or, under proposed changes, the RIIP rules.

The election must be filed with the minister of national revenue in your income tax and benefit return for the tax year in which the vehicle is acquired. There is no provision for late-filing or amended elections.

#### Class 54 (30%)

Include in Class 54 zero-emission vehicles that are not included in Class 16 or 55 and would normally be included in Class 10 or 10.1.

There is a limit of $61,000 (plus federal and provincial sales taxes) on the capital cost for each zero-emission passenger vehicle in Class 54. Class 54 may include both zero-emission vehicles that do and do not exceed the prescribed threshold. However, unlike Class 10.1, Class 54 does not establish a separate class for each vehicle whose cost exceeds the threshold.

If a zero-emission vehicle is disposed of to a person or partnership with whom you deal at arm's length, and its cost exceeds the prescribed amount ($55,000 for vehicles acquired after March 18, 2019, and before January 1, 2022; $59,000 for vehicles acquired after December 31, 2021, and before January 1, 2023; or $61,000 for vehicles acquired after December 31, 2022), the proceeds of disposition will be adjusted based on a factor equal to the prescribed amount as a proportion of the actual cost of the vehicle. For dispositions made after July 29, 2019, the actual cost of the vehicle will also be adjusted for the payment or repayment of government assistance.

|  | First-year enhanced allowance |

| --- | --- |

| Acquisition cost | $65,000 |

| First-year CCA | $61,000 × 75% = $45,750 |

| Undepreciated capital cost (UCC) | $61,000 − $45,750 = $15,250 |

| Proceeds of disposition | $30,000 |

| Part of proceeds of disposition to be deducted from the UCC | $30,000 × ($45,750 ÷ $65,000) = $21,115 |

#### Class 55 (40%)

Include in Class 55 zero-emission vehicles that would normally be included in Class 16.

### Class 56 (30%)

Include in Class 56 (CCA rate of 30%) zero-emission automotive equipment and vehicles (other than motor vehicles) that do not currently benefit from the accelerated rate provided by Classes 54 and 55. To be included in this class, such property needs to be acquired after March 1, 2020, and becomes available for use before 2028.

Under proposed changes, Class 56 is amended to extend the eligibility to include property that is acquired and becomes available for use before 2034.

The enhanced first-year CCA deduction for this class applies only for the tax year in which the equipment or vehicle first becomes available for use. The deduction is subject to the following phase-out period:

- 100% on or after March 2, 2020, and before 2024

- 75% after 2023 and before 2026

- 55% after 2025 and before 2028

Under proposed changes, this phase-out period only applies to property acquired before 2025.

The enhanced first year CCA deduction is reinstated for properties included in Class 56 acquired after 2024. To be eligible, qualifying property has to be acquired and become available for use on or after January 1, 2025, and before 2034. The reinstated deduction is subject to the following phase-out period:

- 100% on or after January 1, 2025, and before 2030

- 75% after 2029 and before 2032

- 55% after 2031 and before 2034

To be eligible for the enhanced first-year allowance, a vehicle or equipment must be automotive (that is, self-propelled) and fully electric or powered by hydrogen. Vehicles or equipment that are powered partially by electricity or hydrogen (which includes hybrid vehicles and vehicles that require human or animal power for propulsion) are not eligible.

Class 56 captures automotive equipment that is not designed for use on highways or streets such as zero-emission aircraft, watercraft, trolley buses and railway locomotives. Additions or alterations may qualify if they convert automotive equipment (other than a motor vehicle) into a zero-emission property.

The CCA is deductible on any remaining balance in the class on a declining-balance basis at the CCA rate of 30%.

You may elect to not include the vehicle or equipment in Class 56. As a result, the property is then included in the class for which it would otherwise be eligible.

Class 56 excludes property in respect of which CCA or a terminal loss has previously been claimed by another person or partnership where the equipment was acquired by the taxpayer on a tax-deferred "rollover" basis or it was previously owned or acquired by the taxpayer or a non-arm's length person or partnership.

## Special situations

### Personal use of property

If you buy property for business and personal use, you can show the business part of the property in Area B or C in one of two ways:

- **Regular method** (your business use stays the same from year to year):

    - Enter the total cost of the property in column 3, the personal part in column 4, and the business part in column 5

    - Enter the amount from column 5 of Area B or C in column 3 of Area A

- **Administrative method** (if your business use changes from year to year, use this method accepted by the CRA to make your calculation easier for you):

    - Enter the total cost of the property in columns 3 and 5, and enter "0" in column 4

    - Enter in column 3 of Area A the amount from column 5 of Area B or C

If you dispose of property you used for business and personal use, you can show the business part of the property in Area D or E in one of two ways:

- If you used the regular method when you bought the property:

    - enter the proceeds of disposition of the property in column 3, the personal part in column 4, and the business part in column 5

    - enter the amount from column 5 of Area D or E in column 5 of Area A

- If you used the administrative method when you bought the property:

    - enter the proceeds of disposition of the property in columns 3 and 5, and enter "0" in column 4

    - enter in column 5 of Area A the amount from column 5 of Area D or E

The amount in column 22(UCC at the end of the year) of Area A is equal to the amount in column 7 minus the amount in column 21. If you are using the administrative method, you may need to make an additional adjustment in column 22 if the property you disposed of is not the last property in its class and an amount remains in column 22 for that class. This adjustment is to ensure that any future CCA you will claim will be related to the business use of the property only.

If you are using the administrative method, you will have to calculate the allowable part you can claim for business use when you claim CCA on line 9936.

Jennifer owns a business. She bought a car in 2025 that she uses for both personal and business use. The car cost $20,000, including all charges and taxes. Therefore, she includes the car in Class 10. Her business use this year was 12,000kilometres of the total 18,000kilometres driven. She calculates her CCA on the car for 2024 as follows:

She enters $20,000 in column 3 and column 5 of Area B. She also enters $20,000 in column 3 of Area A. By completing the other columns in the chart, she calculates a CCA claim of $3,000. Because Jennifer used her car partly for personal use, she calculates her CCA claim as follows:

12,000 (business kilometres) ÷ 18,000 (total kilometres) × $3,000 = $2,000

Jennifer enters $2,000 on line 9936 in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html) or [T1274](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1274.html).

The capital cost limits on a Class 10.1 vehicle (a passenger vehicle) still apply when you split the capital cost between business and personal use. For more information, see [Class 10.1 (30%)](#class10.1).

### Changing from personal to business use

If you bought a property for personal use and started using it in your farming business in your current tax year, there is a change in use. You need to determine the capital cost for business purposes at the moment of this change in use.

If the fair market value (FMV) of a depreciable property (such as equipment or a building) is less than its original cost when you change its use, the amount you enter in column 3 of Area B or C is the FMV of the property (excluding the land value if the property is land and a building). If the FMV is more than the original cost of the property (excluding the land value if the property is land and a building) when you change its use, use the following chart to determine the amount to enter in column 3 of Area B or Area C.

Enter the FMV of the property in column 3 of Area B or C, whichever applies, if, at the time of change in use, the FMV of the depreciable property is less than its original cost.

When you start using your property for your farming business use, you are considered to have disposed of it. If the FMV of the property is more than its cost, you may have a capital gain unless you file an election. For more information on capital gains, see [Chapter 7](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-10.html) or [Guide T4037](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4037.html). Use the following chart to determine the amount to enter in column 3 of Area B or C when the FMV is more than its original cost.

### Capital cost calculation – Change in use

Actual cost of the property

FMV of the property

Amount from line 1

Line 2 **minus** line 3 (if negative, enter "0")

Enter all capital gains deductions claimed for the capital gains related to the depreciable property

Line 4 **minus** line 5 (if negative, enter "0")

Capital cost (line 1 **plus** line 6)

Enter the capital cost of the property from line 7 in column 3 of Area B or C.

We consider that you acquire the land for an amount equal to its FMV when you change its use. Include this amount on Line 9923 – Total cost of all land additions in the year in [Area F](#ch5p5075).

### Grants, subsidies, and rebates

You should subtract from the applicable expense any rebate, grant, or assistance you received. Enter the net expense on the appropriate line of your form.

When you receive a grant, subsidy, or rebate from a government or a government agency to buy depreciable property, subtract the amount of the grant, subsidy, or rebate from the property's capital cost. Do this before you enter the capital cost in column 3 of Area B or C.

If the rebate is more than the remaining undepreciated capital cost in the particular class, add the excess to income on line 9574 or 9575.

You may have paid GST or HST on some of the depreciable property you acquired for your business. If so, you may have also received an input tax credit from us. Subtract the input tax credit from the property's capital cost. Do this before you enter the capital cost in column 3 of Area B or C, whichever applies. If you get an input tax credit for a passenger vehicle you use in your business, use one of these methods:

- For a passenger vehicle you used **90% or more** of the time for your business, subtract the amount of the credit from the vehicle's cost before you enter its capital cost in column 3 of Area B.

- For a passenger vehicle you used **less than 90%** of the time for your business, do not make an adjustment in 2025. Instead, subtract the amount of the credit from your beginning UCC in 2026.

For information on claiming input tax credits for the GST/HST you paid to buy a passenger vehicle, see [GST/HST Memorandum 8.2, General Restrictions and Limitations](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/8-2.html).

Input tax credits are considered government assistance. Include the amount you claimed on line 108 of your GST/HST return on line 9574 or 9575 only if you cannot apply the rebate, grant, or assistance you received to reduce a particular expense or an asset's capital cost.

You may get an incentive from a non-government agency to buy depreciable property. For example, you may receive a tax credit that you can use to reduce your income tax payable.

For more information about government assistance, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-273, Government Assistance – General Comments](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it273r2.html).

### Non-arm's length transactions

When you acquire depreciable property in a [non-arm's length transaction](#ch5p1025), there are special rules for determining the property's cost. These special rules do not apply if you acquire the property because of someone's death.

You can acquire depreciable property in a non-arm's length transaction from:

- an individual resident in Canada

- a partnership with at least one partner who is an individual resident in Canada

- a partnership with at least one partner who is another partnership

If you pay **more** for the property than the seller paid for it, calculate the capital cost as follows:

### Capital cost calculationNon-arm's length transaction – Resident of Canada

The seller's cost or capital cost

The seller's proceeds of disposition

Amount from line 1

Line 2 **minus** line 3 (if negative, enter "0")

Enter any capital gains deduction claimed for the capital gains related to the depreciable property

Line 4 **minus** line 5 (if negative, enter "0")

**Capital cost**Line 1 **plus** line 6

Enter the amount from line 7 in column 3 of either Area B or C, whichever applies. Do not include the cost of the related land. Include the cost of the related land on "Line 9923 – Total cost of all land additions in the year" in Area F of your form.

We consider that you acquire the land for an amount equal to its FMV when you change its use. Include this amount on line 9923 in Area F.

You can also acquire depreciable property in a non-arm's length transaction from:

- a corporation

- an individual who is not a resident of Canada

- a partnership with no partners who are individuals resident in Canada or with no partners that are other partnerships

If you pay **more** for the property than the seller paid for it, calculate the capital cost as follows:

### Capital cost calculation Non-arm's length transaction – Non-resident of Canada

The seller's cost or capital cost

The seller's proceeds of disposition

Amount from line 1

Line 2 **minus** line 3 (if negative, enter "0")

**Capital cost**Line 1 **plus** line 4

Enter the amount from line 5 in column 3 of either Area B or C, whichever applies. Do not include the cost of the related land. Include the cost of the related land on "Line 9923 – Total cost of all land additions in the year" in Area F of your form.

If you acquire depreciable property in anon-arm's length transaction and pay less for it than the seller paid, your capital cost is the same amount as the seller paid. The difference between what you paid and what the seller paid is considered to be deducted as CCA. Enter the amount you paid in column 3 of Area A. Enter the same amount in Area B or C, whichever applies.

Rachel bought a pickup truck for $4,000 from her father, Marcus, in her 2025 fiscal period. Marcus paid $10,000 for the truck in 2015. Since the amount Rachel paid is less than the amount Marcus paid, we consider Rachel's cost to be $10,000. We also consider Rachel to have deducted CCA of $6,000 in the past ($10,000 – $4,000).

Rachel fills in the CCA chart as follows:

- in Area B, she enters $10,000 in column 3, "Total cost"

- in Area A, she enters $4,000 in [column 3, Cost of additions in the year](#col3), as the addition for her 2025 fiscal period

There is a limit on the cost of a passenger vehicle you buy in a non-arm's length transaction. The cost is the **lesser of**:

- the FMV when you buy it

- $38,000 **plus** any GST/HST or PST you would pay on $37,000 if you bought it in your 2025 fiscal period

- the seller's cost amount of the vehicle when you buy it

The cost amount can vary depending on what the seller used the vehicle for before you bought it. If the seller used the vehicle to earn income, the cost amount would be the UCC of the vehicle when you buy it. If the seller did not use the vehicle to earn income, the cost amount will usually be the original cost of the vehicle.

For more information on non-arm's length transactions, see the [Income Tax Folio S1-F5-C1, Related Persons and Dealing at Arm's Length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/folio-5-transfer-income-property-rights-third-parties/income-tax-folio-s1-f5-c1-related-persons-dealing-arms-length.html).

### Special rules for disposing of a building in the year

If you disposed of a building in the current tax year, special rules may apply, making the proceeds of disposition an amount other than the actual proceeds of disposition. This happens when you meet both of the following conditions:

- you disposed of the building for an amount less than both its cost amount, as calculated below, and its capital cost to you

- you, or a person with whom you do not deal at [arm's length](#ch5p1015), owned the land that the building is on, or the land next to it, that was necessary for the building's use

To calculate the **cost amount**:

- if the building was the only property in the class, the cost amount is the undepreciated capital cost (UCC) of the class before you disposed of the building

- if more than one property is in the same class, you have to calculate the cost amount of each building as follows:

(capital cost of the building ÷ capital cost of all property in the class not previously disposed of) × UCC of the class = cost amount of the building

If a building acquired in a non-arm's length transaction was previously used for something other than producing income, the capital cost of the property will need to be recalculated to determine the cost amount of the building.

For more information on proceeds of disposition, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F4-C1, General Discussion of Capital Cost Allowance](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans-folio-4-capital-cost-allowance/income-tax-folio-s3-f4-c1-general-discussion-capital-cost-allowance.html).

If you disposed of a building under these conditions and you or a person with whom you do not deal at arm's length disposed of the land in the same year, calculate your deemed proceeds of disposition as shown in [Calculation A](#P2392_230086).

If you, or a person with whom you do not deal at arm's length, did not dispose of the land in the same year as the building, calculate your deemed proceeds of disposition as shown in [Calculation B](#p1537_164793).

#### Calculation A – Land and building disposed of in the same year

FMV of the building when you disposed of it

FMV of the land just before you disposed of it

Line 1 **plus** line 2

Seller's adjusted cost base of the land

Total capital gains (without reserves) from any disposition of the land (such as a change in use) by you, or by a person not dealing at arm's length with you, in the three-year period before you disposed of the building, to you or to another person not dealing at arm's length with you

Line 4 **minus** line 5 (if negative, enter "0")

Line 2 or line 6, whichever amount is less

Line 3 **minus** line 7 (if negative, enter "0")

Cost amount of the building just before you disposed of it

Capital cost of the building just before you disposed of it

Line 9 or line 10, whichever amount is less

Line 1 or line 11, whichever amount is more

**Deemed proceeds of disposition of the building**

Line 8 or line 12, whichever amount is less (enter the amount from line 13 in column 3 of Area E, and include it in column 5 of Area A)

**Deemed proceeds of disposition of the land**

Proceeds of disposition of the land and the building

Amount from line 13

Line 14 **minus** line 15 (include this amount on line 9924 of Area F)

If you have a terminal loss on the building, include it on line 9896 in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html).

#### Calculation B – Land and building disposed of in different years

Cost amount of the building just before you disposed of it

FMV of the building just before you disposed of it

Line 1 or line 2, whichever amount is more

Actual proceeds of disposition, if any

Line 3 **minus** line 4

Amount from line 5

Amount from line 4

**Deemed proceeds of disposition for the building**

Line 6 **plus** line 7 (enter this amount in column 3 of Area E and include it in column 5 of Area A)

If you have a terminal loss on the building, include it on line 9896 in the "Expenses" section of [Form T1273](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1273.html).

Usually, you can deduct 100% of a terminal loss, but only 50% of a capital loss. Calculation B makes sure you use the same percentage to calculate both a terminal loss on a building and a capital loss on land. As a result of this calculation, you add 50% of the amount on line 5 to the actual proceeds of disposition from the building. For more information, see [Terminal loss](#ch5p3023).

### Replacement property

In some cases, you can postpone or defer including a capital gain or recapture of CCA in calculating income. You might sell a business property and replace it with a similar one, or your property might be stolen, destroyed, or expropriated, and you replace it with a similar one. To defer reporting the gain or recapture of CCA, you must acquire the replacement property within the specified time limits and you (or a person related to you) must use the new property for the same or similar purpose.

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F3-C1, Replacement Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/folio-3-capital-transactions/income-tax-folio-s3-f3-c1-replacement-property.html).

The period beginning on March 15, 2020, and ending on March 12, 2022, is not counted in the calculation of the specified time limits.

You can also defer a capital gain or recapture of CCA when you transfer property to a corporation, a partnership, or your child. For more information on transferring farm property to your child, see [Transfer of farm or fishing property to a child](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-10.html).

For more information on transfers to a corporation or a partnership, see:

- [Information Circular IC76-19, Transfer of Property to a Corporation Under Section 85](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/ic76-19/transfer-property-a-corporation-under-section-85.html)

- [Interpretation Bulletin IT-291, Transfer of Property to a Corporation Under Subsection 85(1)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it291r3.html)

- [Interpretation Bulletin IT-378, Winding-up of a Partnership](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it378r.html)

- [Interpretation Bulletin IT-413, Election by Members of a Partnership Under Subsection 97(2)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it413r.html)

### Details of equity

#### Line 9931 – Total business liabilities

A liability is a debt or an obligation of a business. Total business liabilities are the total of all amounts your business owes at the end of its fiscal period.

Total business liabilities include:

- accounts payable

- notes payable

- income taxes and taxes payable

- unpaid salaries, wages, and benefits

- interest payable

- deferred or unearned revenues

- loans payable

- mortgages payable

- any other outstanding balance related to the business

#### Line 9932 – Drawings in 2025

A drawing is any withdrawal of cash (including salaries) or other assets, or services of a business by the proprietor or partners. This includes transactions by the proprietor or partners (or family members) like withdrawing cash for non-business use and using business assets and services for personal use. Include the cost or value of the personal use of business assets or services in your drawings for the year.

#### Line 9933 – Capital contributions in 2025

A capital contribution is cash or other assets you added to the farming business during its fiscal period. This includes personal funds you added to the business account, business debts you paid with personal funds, and personal assets you transferred to the farming business.

The following example summarizes this chapter on CCA.

In 2025, Trevor bought a building to use for his farming business. The total cost was $95,000 (the $90,000 total purchase price and the $5,000 total expenses connected with the purchase), as follows:

Total purchase price

**Expenses connected with the purchase**

Total fees

Trevor's farming business has a December 31 year-end. In 2025, Trevor's farming income was $6,000 and his expenses were $4,900. Therefore, his net income before deducting CCA was $1,100 ($6,000 − $4,900).

Before Trevor can fill in his CCA schedule, he has to calculate the capital cost of the building. Since land is not depreciable farm property, he has to calculate the part of the expenses connected with the purchase that relates only to the building. To do this, he has to use the following formula:

($75,000 ÷ $90,000) × $5,000 = $4,166.67

This $4,166.67 represents the part of the $5,000 in legal fees and land transfer taxes that relates to the purchase of the building, while the remaining $833.33 relates to the purchase of the land. Therefore, the capital cost of the building is:

Capital cost of the building

Trevor enters $79,166.67 in column 3 of Area C and $15,833.33 ($15,000 + $833.33) on line 9923 of Area F as the capital cost of the land.

Trevor did not own farm property before 2025. Therefore, he has no UCC to enter in column 2 of Area A.

Trevor acquired his farm property in 2025. Therefore, he is subject to the half-year rule that we explain under [Column 18 – Adjustment for current year additions subject to the half-year rule](#col18).

- [Previous page](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-06.html)

- [Table of contents](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-01.html)

- [Next page](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4408/rc4408-09.html)
