---
title: "Farming Income and the AgriStability and AgriInvest Programs Guide – Chapter 6 – Capital gains"
source: https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-09.html
last_modified: 2026-04-16
---
# Farming Income and the AgriStability and AgriInvest Programs Guide – Chapter 6 – Capital gains

## On this page…

- [Find out what a capital gain is](#whatcapgain)

- [Find out what a capital loss is](#whatcaploss)

- [How to calculate your capital gain or loss](#howtocalccapgainloss)

- [Restricted farm losses](#restrictfarmloss)

- [Qualified farm or fishing property and capital gains deduction](#qualfarmfishprop)

- [Real property or property included in Class 14.1](#realpropclass14)

- [Real property or property included in Class 14.1 bought before June 18, 1987](#realpropbefore)

- [Transfer of farm or fishing property to a child](#transferproptochildren)

- [Transfer of farm or fishing property to a spouse or common-law partner](#transferproptospouse)

- [Other special rules](#otherspecrules)

- [Information reporting related to reportable transactions and notifiable transactions](#inforeptnott)

This chapter explains the capital gains rules for people who farm. General capital gains rules are covered in [Guide T4037, Capital Gains](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4037.html).

Throughout this chapter, we use the terms **sell**, **sold**, **buy**, or **bought**. These words describe most capital transactions. However, the information in this chapter also applies to deemed dispositions or acquisitions. When reading this chapter, you can use the terms **sold** instead of **disposed of**, and **bought** instead of **acquired**, if they more clearly describe your situation.

List the dispositions of all your properties on [Schedule 3, Capital Gains or Losses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/tax-packages-years/general-income-tax-benefit-package/5000-s3.html). You can get this schedule and other forms and publications at [CRA forms and publications](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications.html), or by calling **1-800-959-5525**.

You may be in a partnership and receive a [T5013 slip, Statement of Partnership Income](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t5013.html). If the partnership has a capital gain, it will allocate part of that gain to you. The gain will show on the partnership's financial statements or on your T5013 slip.

## Find out what a capital gain is

You have a capital gain when you sell, or are considered to have sold, a capital property for **more than** its adjusted cost base **plus** the outlays or expenses you incurred to sell the property. To calculate your capital gain, subtract the adjusted cost base of your property from the proceeds of disposition. From this amount, subtract any outlays or expenses you incurred when selling your property.

In most cases, capital property includes land, buildings, and equipment that you used in your farming business. Therefore, capital property includes depreciable and non-depreciable property.

You must include your taxable capital gain in income. Not all your capital gain is taxable. For 2025, generally, your taxable capital gain is one-half of your capital gain.

A disposition of depreciable property may result in a [recapture of capital cost allowance (CCA)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-05.html).

## Find out what a capital loss is

You have a capital loss when you sell, or are considered to have sold, non-depreciable capital property for **less** than its adjusted cost base **plus** the outlays or expenses you incurred to sell the property. To calculate your capital loss, subtract the adjusted cost base of your property from the proceeds of disposition. From this amount, subtract any outlays or expenses you incurred when selling your property.

Not all your capital loss is deductible. For 2025, your allowable capital loss is one-half of your capital loss. You can only deduct an allowable capital loss from a taxable capital gain.

A loss on a disposition of depreciable property may only result in a [Terminal loss](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-06.html).

Before you can determine your capital gain or capital loss, you will need to know the following terms.

**Proceeds of disposition**– in most cases means the sale price of the property, see [Proceeds of disposition](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-06.html).

**Adjusted cost base (ACB)** – the original cost of the property (including amounts you paid to buy it, such as commissions and legal fees). ACB includes other costs such as the cost of any additions, or the cost to renovate or improve the property.

**Outlays and expenses**– amounts you incurred to sell your property. They include costs such as commissions, surveyors' fees, transfer taxes, and advertising costs.

**Fair market value (FMV)** – generally the highest dollar value you can get for your property. See [Fair market value](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-05.html).

## How to calculate your capital gain or loss

To calculate your capital gain or loss, use the following formula:

Proceeds of disposition

Adjusted cost base

Line 1 **minus** line 2

Outlays and expenses

Capital gain (loss) = Line 3 **minus** line 4

You have to calculate the capital gain or loss on each property separately.

### If you sold in 2025 capital property that you owned before 1972

If you did, you have to apply a special set of rules when you calculate your capital gain or loss because you did not have to pay tax on capital gains before 1972. To help you calculate your gain or loss from the sale of property you owned before 1972, use [Form T1105, Supplementary Schedule for Dispositions of Capital Property Acquired Before 1972](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1105.html).

### Disposing of farmland that includes your principal residence

Your home is usually your principal residence. If your home was your principal residence for every year you owned it, you generally do not pay tax on any capital gains when you dispose of it. Therefore, if you sold farmland that included your home in 2025, only part of the gain is taxable.

The sale must be reported, along with any principal residence designation, on [Schedule 3, Capital Gains or Losses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/tax-packages-years/general-income-tax-benefit-package/5000-s3.html), under "Qualified farm or fishing property" or "Real estate, depreciable property, and other properties." The CRA can accept a late designation in certain circumstances, but a penalty may apply.

For information on change in use rules or on deemed dispositions from a full or partial change of use of a property, see [Guide T4037, Capital Gains](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4037.html).

You can choose one of two methods to determine your taxable capital gain. Try both methods to see which one is best for you.

The land on which your home is located can be part of your principal residence. Usually, the amount of land that you can consider as part of your principal residence is limited to one half hectare (1.24 acres). If you can show that you need more land to use and enjoy your home, you can consider more than 1.24 acres as part of your principal residence. For example, this may happen if the minimum lot size imposed by a municipality at the time you bought the property is larger than one half hectare.

#### Method 1

Separately calculate the capital gain on your principal residence and each of your farm properties. To do this, apportion the proceeds of disposition, the ACB, and any outlays and expenses between:

- your principal residence

- each of your farm properties

Then, calculate the **taxable** capital gain on your principal residence, if any, and each of the farm properties.

Value the land that is part of your principal residence at one of the following two amounts, whichever is **more**:

- the fair market value (FMV) of the land

- the FMV of a comparable residential building site in the area

If your home was **not** your principal residence for every year you owned it, there could be a capital gain on it you have to include in your income. [Form T2091(IND), Designation of a Property as a Principal Residence by an Individual (Other Than a Personal Trust)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t2091ind.html), will help you calculate the number of years you are entitled to designate your home as your principal residence and calculate the part of your gain, if any, that is taxable. For more information on how to report the disposition of your principal residence, see [Guide T4037, Capital Gains](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4037.html).

On February 1, 2025, Helena sold her 32-acre farm, which included her principal residence. One acre of land is part of her principal residence. Helena has these details:

**Value of land when she purchased her farm**

FMV of a typical residential building site in the area

**Value of land when she sold her farm**

FMV of a typical residential building site in the area

**Adjusted cost base – actual purchase price**

**Total**

**Proceeds of disposition – actual sale price**

**Total**

**Minus ACB**

**Gain on sale**

**Minus:** Gain on principal residence[Footnote2](#fn2tb3)

**Capital gain**

**Taxable capital gain** (½ × $75,000)

#### Method 2

Determine the capital gain on your land and your principal residence. Then subtract $1,000 from the gain. Subtract an additional $1,000 for each year after 1971 that the property was your principal residence and you were a resident of Canada. Using Method 2, you can reduce a gain to nil, but you cannot create a loss.

To calculate your capital gain, use the following formula:

Proceeds of disposition

Adjusted cost base

Line A **minus**line B

Outlays and expenses

Capital gain before reduction (Line C **minus** line D)

Method 2 reduction

Capital gain after reduction (Line E **minus** line F)

Transfer the entries from lines A, B, D, and G to the relevant columns on [Schedule 3, Capital Gains or Losses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/tax-packages-years/general-income-tax-benefit-package/5000-s3.html), under "Qualified farm or fishing property" or "Real estate, depreciable property, and other properties."

If you choose this method, attach a letter to your income tax return that includes the following information:

- a statement by you that you sold your farm and are electing under subparagraph 40(2)(c)(ii) of the [Income Tax Act](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/I-3.3/index.html)

- a description of the property you sold

- the number of years after 1971 that the farmhouse was your principal residence during which you were a resident of Canada (if you purchased your farm after 1971, give the date you purchased it)

As proof of the value of your property, regardless of the method you choose, keep documents that have the following information:

- a description of the farm, including the size of the buildings and construction type

- the cost of the property and the date of purchase

- the cost of any additions or improvements you made to the property

- the assessment for property tax purposes

- any insurance coverage

- the type of land (arable, bush, or scrub)

- the type of farm operation

For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S1-F3-C2, Principal Residence](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/folio-3-family-unit-issues/income-tax-folio-s1-f3-c2-principal-residence.html).

## Restricted farm losses

You may have a capital gain from farmland you sell in 2025. You may also have restricted farm losses from previous years you have not yet used. In this case, you can deduct part of these losses from the gain. The part you can deduct is the property taxes and the interest on money you borrowed to buy the land, if you included these amounts in the calculation of the restricted farm loss in question.

You cannot use the restricted farm loss to create or increase a capital loss on the sale of your farmland.

## Qualified farm or fishing property and capital gains deduction

The following is a list of updated definitions effective January 1, 2014:

- the new definition **qualified farm or fishing property** (QFFP) replaced the two previous definitions:

    - qualified farm property (QFP)

    - qualified fishing property (QXP)

- the new definition **interest in a family farm or fishing partnership** replaced the two previous definitions:

    - interest in a family farm partnership

    - interest in a family fishing partnership

- the new definition **share of the capital stock of a family farm or fishing corporation** replaced the two previous definitions:

    - share of the capital stock of a family-farm corporation

    - share of the capital stock of a family-fishing corporation

### Find out what a qualified farm or fishing property is

QFFP is certain property you or your spouse or common-law partner own. It is also certain property owned by a family farm or fishing partnership in which you or your spouse or common-law partner holds an interest. We define spouse and common-law partner in the [Federal Income Tax and Benefit Information](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/tax-packages-years/general-income-tax-benefit-package/5000-g.html).

QFFP includes:

- a real property, such as land and buildings

- a share of the capital stock of a family-farm or fishing corporation you or your spouse or common-law partner owns

- an interest in a family-farm or fishing partnership that you or your spouse or common-law partner owns

- a property included in Class 14.1 used in the course of carrying on a farming or fishing business, such as milk and egg quotas

### Capital gains deduction

If you have a taxable capital gain from the sale of QFFP, you may be able to claim a capital gains deduction.

Under proposed changes, the lifetime capital gains exemption (LCGE) for qualifying properties in 2025 is $1,250,000. Indexation of the LCGE will resume in 2026. The amount of the existing maximum capital gains deduction for qualifying properties is $625,000(one-half of $1,250,000).

For more information on how to calculate your capital gains deduction, see [Form T657, Calculation of Capital Gains Deduction for 2025](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t657.html), and [Form T936, Calculation of Cumulative Net Investment Loss (CNIL) to December 31, 2025](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t936.html).

You may be a member of a partnership that sold capital property. In this case, the partnership would allocate any taxable capital gains or allowable capital losses to the partners. If you are allocated a share of a taxable capital gain on QFFP, you may be entitled to claim a capital gains deduction.

The LCGE rules on certain farming or fishing property, shares or interests apply to taxpayers involved in a combination of farming and fishing businesses.

- Property held directly or through a partnership:

    - Where an individual carries on a farming or fishing business as a sole proprietor, or through a partnership, in order to be eligible for the LCGE, the qualifying property must be used mainly in a farming business or a fishing business. Eligibility for the LCGE extends to property of an individual used mainly in a combination of farming and fishing.

- Shares or partnership interests:

    - In order for an individual's shares in a family corporation or interest in a family partnership to qualify for the LCGE, all or substantially all (generally interpreted as 90% or more) of the fair market value of the property of the entity must be property used mainly in a farming business or a fishing business. A property held by a family-farm corporation or partnership that is used in a combination of farming and fishing must be used mainly in farming in order to count towards the "all or substantially all" test. A similar rule applies for a property held by a family-fishing corporation or partnership.

    - Eligibility for the LCGE extends to an individual's shares in a corporation, or interest in a partnership, where the corporation or partnership carries on both a farming business and a fishing business. In particular, if a property of the corporation or partnership is used mainly in either business, or is used mainly in a combination of farming and fishing, the property will count towards the "all or substantially" all test.

    - Also, throughout any 24-month period ending before that time, more than 50% of the fair market value of the property of the entity was attributable to property. That property must have been used principally in the course of carrying on a farming or fishing business in Canada in which a qualified user was actively engaged on a regular and continuous basis, by the following:

          - you, your spouse or common-law partner, or any of your parents or [children](#children)

          - the beneficiary of a personal trust, or the spouse or common-law partner, parent, or child of such a beneficiary

          - a family farm or fishing corporation where any of the above persons owns a share of the corporation

          - a family farm or fishing partnership where any of the above persons (except a family farm or fishing corporation) owns an interest in the partnership

## Real property or property included in Class 14.1

Real property or property included in Class 14.1 is QFFP only if it is used to carry on a farming or fishing business in Canada by **any** of the following:

- you, your spouse or common-law partner, or any of your parents or [children](#children)

- the beneficiary of a personal trust, or the spouse or common-law partner, parent, or child of such a beneficiary

- a family farm or fishing corporation where any of the above persons owns a share of the corporation

- a family farm or fishing partnership where any of the above persons (except a family farm or fishing corporation) owns an interest in the partnership

We will consider real property or property included in Class 14.1 to be used to carry on a farming or fishing business in Canada if you meet the following conditions:

- throughout the 24 months before the sale, you, your spouse or common-law partner, any of your children, or parents, a personal trust from which one of these persons acquired the property, or a family-farm or family-fishing partnership (in which any of these persons has an interest) must have owned the property

- you meet one of the following two conditions:

    - While the property was owned by any of the above persons in at least two years; the property or the property it replaced was mainly used in a farming or fishing business in Canada in which any of the above persons was actively engaged on a regular and ongoing basis. Also, while the property was owned by any of the above persons in at least two years; the person's gross income from the business was larger than the person's income from all other sources in the year.

    - Family farm or a fishing partnership or corporation used the property for at least 24 months, to carry on a farming or fishing business in Canada. Also, during this time, you, your spouse or common-law partner, any of your children, or your parents must have been actively engaged on a regular and ongoing basis in the business.

### Real property or property included in Class 14.1 bought before June 18, 1987

You may have bought or entered into an agreement to buy real property or property included in Class 14.1 before June 18, 1987. We consider you to have used this property in carrying on a farming business in Canada if you meet **one**of the following conditions:

- In the year you disposed of it, the property or the one it replaced was used in a farming business in Canada by any of the above persons, a family farm partnership, a corporation, or by a personal trust from which one of the above individuals acquired the property.

- The property, or the property it replaced, was used in a farming business in Canada for at least five years by any of the above persons, a family farm partnership, or corporation, or by a personal trust from which one of the above individuals acquired the property. During this time, the property was owned by any of the above persons or a family farm partnership or corporation.

## Transfer of farm or fishing property to a child

You may be able to transfer Canadian farm or fishing property to your child. When you do this, you can postpone tax on any taxable capital gain and any recapture of capital cost allowance until the child sells the property. To do this, **both** of these conditions have to be met:

- your child was a resident of Canada just before the transfer

- the farm or fishing property was land in Canada, or depreciable property in Canada of a prescribed class, in respect of a farming or fishing business carried on in Canada, and has been used in the business in which you, your spouse or common-law partner, or any of your children were actively engaged on a regular and ongoing basis before the transfer

The rules on intergenerational transfers of certain farming and fishing property from an individual to the individual's child include taxpayers involved in a combination of farming and fishing businesses.

Where an individual carries on a farming or fishing business as a sole proprietor, or through a partnership, in order to be eligible for the intergenerational transfer, the qualifying property must be used mainly in a farming business or a fishing business. Eligibility for the intergenerational transfer extends to property of an individual used mainly in a combination of farming and fishing.

Your **children**include:

- your natural child, your adopted child, or your spouse's or common-law partner's child

- your grandchild or great-grandchild

- your child's spouse or common-law partner

- another person who is wholly dependent on you for support and who is, or was immediately before the age of 19, in your custody and under your control

The following types of property qualify for this transfer:

- farmland

- depreciable property, including buildings

Furthermore, a share of the capital stock of a family farm or fishing corporation and an interest in a family farm or fishing partnership also qualify for this transfer if your child is a resident of Canada just before the transfer.

The rules on intergenerational transfers of certain farming and fishing property from an individual to the individual's child include taxpayers involved in a combination of farming and fishing businesses.

- Shares or partnership interests:

    - In order for an individual's shares in a family corporation or interest in a family partnership to qualify for the intergenerational transfer, all or substantially all (generally interpreted as 90% or more) of the fair market value of the property of the entity must be property used mainly in a farming business or a fishing business. Eligibility for the intergenerational transfer extends to an individual's shares in a corporation, or interest in a partnership, where the corporation or partnership carries on both a farming business and a fishing business. In particular, if a property of the corporation or partnership is used mainly in either business, or is used mainly in a combination of farming and fishing, the property will count towards the "all or substantially all" test.

For most property, the transfer price can be any amount between the ACB and its FMV. For depreciable property, the transfer price can be any amount between its undepreciated capital cost (UCC) and its FMV.

Wade wants to transfer these farm properties to Vicky, his 19-year-old daughter.

Therefore, Wade can transfer the following:

- the land at any amount between $85,000 (ACB) and $100,000 (FMV)

- the combine at any amount between $7,840 (UCC) and $9,000 (FMV)

If Wade transfers the land at a price equal to its ACB and the combine at a price equal to its UCC, he postpones any taxable capital gain and any recapture of capital cost allowance (CCA). Also, if he does this, we consider that Wade's proceeds of disposition and the amounts Vicky paid to acquire the properties are $85,000 for the land and $7,840 for the combine. When Vicky disposes of the land and the combine, she includes in her income any taxable capital gain and recapture that Wade postpones.

For information on intergenerational business transfers from an individual to a corporation controlled by one or more of the individual's children, see [Form T2066, Election for Immediate or Gradual Intergenerational Business Transfer](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t2066.html) or subsections 84.1(2.31) and 84.1(2.32)of the [Income Tax Act](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/I-3.3/).

### Transfer of farm or fishing property to a child if a parent dies in the year

We allow a tax-free transfer of a deceased taxpayer's Canadian farm or fishing property to a child if **all** of these conditions are met:

- the child was resident in Canada just before the parent's death

- the property was used mainly in a farming or fishing business on a regular and ongoing basis by the deceased, the deceased's spouse or common-law partner, or any of the children before the parent's death

- the property was transferred to the child no later than 36 months after the parent's death. In some cases, we may allow the transfer even if it took place later than 36 months after the parent's death

The rules under [Transfer of farm or fishing property to a child](#transferproptochildren) may also apply in this section if the deceased's legal representative doesn't elect to have paragraph 70(9.01)(b) of the Income Tax Act apply in respect of the property.

The following types of farm or fishing property qualify for this transfer:

- land and buildings, or other depreciable property used mainly in a farming or fishing business

- a share of the capital stock of a family farm or fishing corporation, and an interest in a family-farm or fishing partnership

For most property, the transfer price can be any amount between the ACB and its FMV.

For depreciable property, the transfer price can be an amount between the property's FMV and a special amount. For more information, see [Doing taxes for someone who died](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/life-events/doing-taxes-someone-died.html).

The deceased's legal representative can elect, under paragraph 70(9.01)(b), to choose the amount in the year of death. We consider the child to acquire these properties at the amount chosen.

Similar rules apply for property that a deceased person leased to the family farm or fishing corporation or partnership.

If a child gets a farm or fishing property from a parent and the child later dies, the property can be transferred to the surviving parent based on the same rules.

Shares or other property of a family farm or fishing holding corporation can also be transferred based on the same rules, from a spouse or common-law partner trust to a child of the settlor. The settlor is the person who sets up a trust, or the person who transfers property to a trust.

For more information on these transfers, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-349, Intergenerational Transfers of Farm Property on Death](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it349r3.html).

## Transfer of farm or fishing property to a spouse or common-law partner

A farmer can transfer farm property to a spouse or common-law partner or to a spousal or common-law partner trust during the farmer's lifetime. At the time of transfer, the farmer can postpone any taxable capital gain or recapture of CCA.

If the spouse or common-law partner later disposes of the property, the farmer, not the spouse or common-law partner generally has to report any taxable capital gain. This rule applies where the farmer is living at the time the spouse or common-law partner sells the property. However, there are exceptions to this rule. For more information, see [Interpretation Bulletin IT-511, Interspousal and Certain Other Transfers and Loans of Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it511r.html).

A transfer of farm property can also occur after the farmer dies. For more information, see [Doing taxes for someone who died](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/life-events/doing-taxes-someone-died.html).

The rollover provisions available for farm properties also apply to land and depreciable property used mainly in a woodlot farming business. They will apply where the deceased, the deceased's spouse or common-law partner, or any of the deceased's children were engaged in the woodlot operation as required by a **prescribed forest management plan** for the woodlot.

## Other special rules

You may also be able to postpone paying tax on capital gains in the following situations.

### Reserves

When you dispose of a capital property, you usually receive full payment at that time. However, sometimes you receive the amount over a number of years. Generally, a reserve allows you to defer reporting part of the capital gain to the year in which you receive the proceeds.

For example, you may sell a capital property for $50,000 and receive $10,000 at the time of the sale. You receive the remaining $40,000 over four years. In this situation, you can claim a reserve. However, there is a limit to the number of years you can do this.

For more information on reserves, see [Guide T4037, Capital Gains](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4037.html), and [Form T2017, Summary of Reserves on Dispositions of Capital Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t2017.html).

### Exchanges or expropriations of property

There are special rules that apply when you dispose of a property and replace it with a similar one, or when someone expropriates your property. For more information, see [Income Tax Folio S3-F3-C1, Replacement Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-3-property-investments-savings-plans/folio-3-capital-transactions/income-tax-folio-s3-f3-c1-replacement-property.html).

## Information reporting related to reportable transactions and notifiable transactions

If you are a taxpayer, advisor or promoter who engages in or who is entitled to certain fees in relation to certain tax avoidance transactions, you are subject to new reporting requirements.

### Reportable transactions

Effective for transactions entered into after June 21, 2023, a transaction is reportable if it is an avoidance transaction as defined in subsection 237.3(1), previously 245(3), of the [Income Tax Act](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/I-3.3/) and has at least one (previously two) of the following three generic hallmarks:

- the advisor or promoter (including any non-arm's length parties) has or had an entitlement to contingent fee arrangements

- the advisor or promoter (including any non-arm's length parties) has or had confidential protection in respect of a tax treatment related to the avoidance transaction

- the taxpayer, advisor or promoter (including any non-arm's length parties) has or had contractual protection for the transaction (other than as a result of certain types of fees or, for transactions entered into after 2022, because it concerns contractual protection offered in the context of normal commercial transactions to a wide market)

For more information on examples of activities that would not meet a hallmark, and therefore would not have to meet a reporting obligation, go to [No reporting obligation under the reportable transaction regime](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/programs/about-canada-revenue-agency-cra/compliance/mandatory-disclosure-rules-overview/guidance-document.html).

A reportable transaction does not include a transaction that is, or is part of, a series of transactions that includes the acquisition of a tax shelter or issuance of a flow-through share for which an information return has been filed with the minister of national revenue under subsections 237.1(7) or 66(12.68), respectively. This is the case unless it is reasonable to conclude that one of the main reasons for the acquisition of a tax shelter, or the issuance of a flow through-share, was to avoid the reportable transactions provisions under section 237.3.

### Notifiable transactions

You are now required to report **notifiable transactions**. The minister of national revenue has the authority to designate, with the agreement of the minister of finance, a transaction or a series of transactions as a notifiable transaction. Reporting requirements (and exceptions to the rule) similar to those for reportable transactions apply with the inclusion of a prescribed form. A notifiable transaction is a transaction that is the same as, or substantially similar to, a designated transaction, or a transaction in a series of transactions that is the same as, or substantially similar to, a designated series of transactions. This applies to notifiable transactions entered into after June 21, 2023.

For a list of notifiable transactions designated by the minister of National Revenue, go to [Notifiable transactions designated by the Minister of National Revenue](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/programs/about-canada-revenue-agency-cra/compliance/mandatory-disclosure-rules-overview/notifiable-transactions-designated-by-minister-national-revenue.html). You can subscribe to CRA's electronic mailing list at [Canada Revenue Agency electronic mailing lists](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/news/e-services/canada-revenue-electronic-mailing-lists.html) to receive an email when the minister designates new notifiable transactions.

### Filing requirements

For reportable transactions and notifiable transactions entered into after June 21, 2023, you must file [Form RC312, Reportable Transaction and Notifiable Transaction Information Return](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/rc312.html). You mustsend it to us within 90 days of the earlier of the day the business or a person transacting for it:

- becomes contractually obligated to enter into the reportable or notifiable transaction

- enters into the reportable or notifiable transaction

An extended reassessment period may apply under paragraphs 152(4)(b.5) and 152(4)(b.6) of the Income Tax Act.

If the information return is not filed as required, the reassessment period is extended by three years after the day on which it is filed as required. The scope of an assessment, reassessment, or additional assessment during the extended reassessment period for a taxpayer's tax year is limited to the extent that it can reasonably be regarded as relating to the reportable or notifiable transaction.

For reportable transactions entered into before June 22, 2023, you must file a previous version of [Form RC312](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/rc312.html) by June 30 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the transaction first becomes a reportable transaction.

File this return separately from your tax return. Before you file it, make a copy for your records. Send the original return, amended return or any additional information to:

**Winnipeg Tax Centre Data Assessment and Evaluation Programs Validation and Verification Section**Foreign Reporting Returns66 Stapon Road Winnipeg MB R3C 3M2****

### Penalties

Under the mandatory disclosure rules (MDR), specific penalty provisions apply to reportable or notifiable transactions. For that reason, there is no general penalty provision for not filing an information return for these transactions. This is deemed to have come into force onJune 22, 2023, which is the coming into force date of the specific penalty provisions under the MDR.

Failure to report could result in suspension of the tax benefit and a penalty.

For transactions entered into afterJune 21, 2023, penalties will apply for each failure to report a reportable transaction or a notifiable transaction:

- to persons who enter into such transactions or for whom a tax benefit results from such transactions

- to advisors and promoters of such transactions and persons who do not deal at arm's length with them and who are entitled to a fee for the transactions

For more information on the penalty amounts, go to [Taxpayer penalty](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/programs/about-canada-revenue-agency-cra/compliance/mandatory-disclosure-rules-overview/guidance-document.html).

- [Previous page](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-08.html)

- [Table of contents](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-01.html)

- [Next page](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4060/rc4060-10.html)
