---
title: "Chapter 1 Electronic Records Preparation for 2025"
source: https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/rc4018/chapter-1.html
last_modified: 2025-05-30
---
# Chapter 1 Electronic Records Preparation for 2025

## Introduction

Electronic filing (EFILE) for income tax return is limited to the current plus seven prior tax years. It is an automated service that permits those who prepare tax returns on behalf of others to electronically file them to the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). You must use a software product certified for EFILE to transmit the returns using a web service. You will receive a "real-time" acknowledgement, which means a confirmation number is provided almost instantly using the same web service.

The purpose of this chapter is to provide supplementary information for tax preparers and software developers for the completion of the electronic return and the correction of errors. This chapter does not replace or contain information that is in the Federal Income Tax Information, other supplementary guides or other CRA publications.

Ensure the return contains all the required information before it is transmitted.

If we have accepted and processed your client's tax return, you may be able to retransmit an online adjustment. Go to [canada.ca/guide-refile](https://www.canada.ca/en/services/taxes/income-tax/personal-income-tax/after-you-file/change-return.html) for more information. Also, your client can use the "Change my return" option by signing in to their CRA account and accessing My Account at [canada.ca/cra-account](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/cra-login-services.html). Alternatively, you may change your client's return if you have a level 2 authorization on your client's account. Go to [canada.ca/cra-represent-a-client](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/represent-a-client/about-represent-a-client.html) for more information.

## Information for tax preparers

### Support

If you receive an error message after you transmit a return, consult Chapter 2 of the Electronic Filers Manual. If you have questions regarding the error messages or any problems regarding the authentication for EFILE numbers and passwords, the EFILE Helpdesk is available for assistance. Please make every attempt to contact your designated Helpdesk. You may read the following web pages for more information:

1. EFILE certified software for the 2026 EFILE program [canada.ca/cra-efile-software](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-individuals/efile-electronic-filers/efile-certified-software-efile-program.html)

2. Mandatory electronic filing for tax preparers [canada.ca/taxes-mandatory-electronic-filing](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-tax-preparers/mandatory-electronic-filing-tax-preparers.html)

3. EFILE for electronic filers – File returns [canada.ca/taxes-file-returns-filing](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-individuals/efile-electronic-filers/file-returns.html)

4. EFILE for electronic filers – Eligibility [canada.ca/cra-efile-eligibility](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-individuals/efile-electronic-filers/eligibility.html)

5. Form T183 [canada.ca/cra-form-t183](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t183.html)

6. Information for discounters [canada.ca/taxes-discounters](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-businesses/information-discounters.html)

7. About Auto-fill my return [canada.ca/auto-fill-my-return](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/about-auto-fill-return.html)

### Processing returns

#### Electronic returns

Subsection 150.1(3) of the Income Tax Act states: "For the purposes of section 150, where a return of income of a taxpayer for a taxation year is filed by way of electronic filing, it shall be deemed to be a return of income filed with the Minister in prescribed form on the day the Minister acknowledges acceptance of it."

For an electronic record to be deemed a return of income filed with the Minister in prescribed form, a confirmation number must be generated by EFILE.

#### Form T7DR(A), Electronic Filing Remittance Form

As of the 2017 filing season, the Form T7DR(A) is no longer available in paper format. Certified software will have the capability to provide a link to an electronic version of the T7D(A) remittance form.

If not included in the software, you can call **1-800-959-8281** for instructions to download a fillable PDF form. Each electronic T7D(A) form:

- is personalized

- contains a QR code, allowing your client to pay in person at their Canadian financial institution or at any Canada Post outlet across Canada

- contains validations to ensure information is accurate

- is easy to use and take less than a minute to complete

#### Near real-time processing

The CRA begins processing tax returns (2018 to 2025 tax years) on February 23, 2026. The majority of accepted EFILE returns are processed in near real time shortly after being filed. For returns filed using EFILE, notice of assessments are available through a CRA account by accessing My Account or Represent a Client for authorized representatives. First-time filers will receive a paper notice of assessment regardless of how they file their first income tax return. Notices of assessment delivered electronically will be available within 24 hours. Paper notices of assessment will be issued via a batch cycle process. The first notice of assessment date will be in early March 2026.

#### Payment of balance owing

Inform clients that payment of any balance owing on the 2025 tax return is due by April 30, 2026. Clients who file early may send the CRA a post-dated payment for as late as April 30, 2026. Compound daily interest is charged on any outstanding balance from May 1, 2026 until it is paid in full. Inform clients that if they cannot pay in full upon filing their return, they may go to [canada.ca/cra-collections](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/about-canada-revenue-agency-cra/when-you-money-collections-cra.html) for additional information.

Go to [canada.ca/guide-taxes-payments](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/make-a-payment-canada-revenue-agency.html) for information on the different types of payment methods.

#### Refund enquiries

Do not direct your client’s refund enquiries to the EFILE Helpdesks. Instead, your client should call **1-800-959-8281**. Go to [canada.ca/cra-individual-income-tax-enquiries-line](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/corporate/contact-information.html) for the hours of telephone service. Advise your client that the CRA enquiries officers can only check the status of the refund four weeks after the electronic return has been accepted by the Agency for processing. You must inform your client accordingly if a delay is encountered in the submission of the EFILE return. Your clients can also visit their CRA account by accessing My Account to get information about the status of their current year refund.

### Election documentation

For ease of discussion in this part, all elections, designations, agreements, waivers, and special elective returns are referred to as "elections."

The Income Tax Act provides for various elections to be made. Some are made on authorized CRA forms. Others are made by providing specific information in a letter or note.

All elections, including the supporting documentation, must be submitted to the CRA in writing, unless otherwise indicated. In order for an election to be considered valid, it must be submitted by the due date established in the Act.

Paper documentation in support of elections should be sent to the tax centre that services the area in which the client lives except for Form T1135, Foreign Income Verification Statement, which is to be sent to the tax centre indicated on the form. If the return is successfully transmitted by EFILE, a paper copy of the form is not required to be sent to the tax centre.

When submitting this documentation:

- Clearly state the client's full name, address, and social insurance number (SIN) on all the election forms and letters.

- Clearly indicate in the covering letter that this documentation is submitted in support of the client's electronically filed return.

All other documentation used to prepare the return, excluding elections as indicated, is to be retained and sent to the CRA only if requested.

### Identification and other information

To ensure accurate and up-to-date identification information is included, confirm your clients' personal details, including their current address, before entering it on the EFILE return. Ensure that the name, the SIN and date of birth entered belong to the client for whom you are preparing the return. Non acceptance often results because spousal identification information is entered on the client’s return.

The following information is found on pages 1, 2 and 8 of the Income Tax and Benefit Return. Refer to Appendices A, B, C and D for specifications.

#### Identification

##### First name/Last name

The client’s first and/or last name must agree with the information on the CRA’s records. If the information you entered was correct and the client is not a first-time filer, indicate that a name change is required. If the client is a first-time filer, it must be indicated that they are a first-time filer and a name change for the client’s first and/or last name is not permitted as they must agree with the information on the CRA’s records.

When entering the client’s name:

- All names may begin and end with an alphanumeric character. See Appendix B for more information.

- Do not key titles in the taxpayer’s name (e.g., Ms, Rev, Dr).

- Where there is a suffix after the taxpayer’s name, leave one space between the surname and the suffix.

- For hyphenated names, do not leave a space (e.g., Jones-Smith).

- Where the taxpayer has multiple first names (e.g., Mary Lou), leave a space between the names.

- A client who uses a number at the beginning of their name (e.g., an Inuit) may enter the number before their name.

- For deceased clients, do not include "The estate of the late" in the client’s first name.

##### Mailing address (apartment – number, street)

All address fields must begin and end with an alpha or numeric character. Failure to comply with the specifications may result in a processing delay.

- When a street address contains a fraction, for example, 45½, key as 45 1/2. Leave only one space to separate numbers and words (for example, 75 3 Garden St).

- The entry for the name of the city is validated against the CRA’s city database index. The only allowable combination of special characters in the city name is a period followed by a hyphen.

- The postal code must be in ANANAN format and it must be valid for the city and the province or territory of residence entered.

- When making an entry on the “care of” line, do not include “C/O,” “c/o,” or “care of.” Do not enter the “care of” information in the client’s address lines and do not make an entry on this line unless it is to be used in the client’s mailing address. Entries on this line will be printed on the client’s notice of assessment. Begin and end the entry with an alpha or numeric character.

- For discounted returns, enter the client’s address. The CRA will direct the notice of assessment and the refund to the discounter based on the address associated with the discounter code.

- For pre-bankruptcy returns, do not enter the trustee’s address. It is the client’s address that must be entered.

The EFILE service will accept tax returns with a non-Canadian mailing address.

- When entering an U.S. address, the zip code is mandatory and it must be numeric. It must be greater than 00000 and less than 100000. Zip code extension is optional. If provided, it must be in four digits and must be greater than 0000.

##### Email address

By providing an email address, the client is **registering** to receive email notifications from the CRA and **agree** to the **Terms of use**. This means that instead of receiving certain types of correspondence by mail, the CRA will send an email to notify the user that they have new messages in their CRA Account. Clients can view or make changes to their correspondence preference by signing in to their CRA account. To view the Terms of use, go to [canada.ca/cra-email-notifications-terms](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/terms-email-notifications.html).

##### Social insurance number (SIN)

Ensure that the name, the SIN and date of birth entered belong to the client for whom you are preparing the return. Non acceptance often results because spousal identification information is entered on the client’s return.

##### Date of birth

The date of birth is one of the entries used to ensure that the correct master record is accessed for processing the return. If you are preparing a tax return for a client who has previously filed, you should refer to the client’s previous notice of assessment to determine if it contained notification concerning a discrepancy in the date of birth.

Changes to the date of birth cannot be made through EFILE. Where a change is required, the client should contact their local tax services office.

##### Date of death

Enter your client’s date of death. Valid entries are within or subsequent to the current tax year.

##### Marital status

Enter the client’s marital status on December 31 of the tax year.

Separated means that the taxpayer has been living apart from their spouse or common-law partner because of a breakdown in the relationship for a period of at least 90 days. Once they have been separated for 90 days because of a breakdown in the relationship, the effective date of the separated status is the day they started living apart. If they file a tax return before their 90-day separation period is over and that period includes December 31, enter their marital status as married or living common-law, as applicable. If, after filing their tax return, they continue to live separate and apart from their spouse or common-law partner and they have been living this way for at least 90 days, complete Form RC65, Marital Status Change, using the date of the beginning of the 90-day period as their date of separation. They will also have to file an amended return to adjust their entitlement for any credits claimed or to apply for credits that they may not have been entitled to when they were married or living common-law.

##### Language of correspondence

Enter the client’s choice of official language when corresponding with the CRA.

#### Residence information

##### Province or territory of residence

Where the client’s mailing address is in a province or territory different from the province or territory of residence on December 31 of the tax year, the client is still eligible for EFILE.

Enter the client's province or territory where the client lives now if it is different from their mailing address.

##### Province or territory of self-employment

The entries for the province or territory of residence and of self-employment must be the same or the client is not eligible to EFILE, unless a Form T2203, Provincial and Territorial Taxes for Multiple Jurisdictions, is being filed.

##### Date of entry

Enter the client's immigration date. The year must be the same as the year of the tax return.

##### Date of departure

Enter the client’s emigration date. The year must be the same as the year of the tax return.

#### Your spouse's or common-law partner's information

##### Spouse's or common-law partner's first name

The CRA uses only the first four characters entered for the spouse's or common-law partner's given name. A period is valid with the exception of the first character.

##### Spouse’s or common-law partner’s SIN

Ensure that the client’s SIN has not been entered as the spouse’s or common-law partner’s SIN.

##### Spouse's or common-law partner's net income

Enter the spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income, even if the amount is “0.”

If the spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income is a negative amount, refer to [Tax Return Specifications, Spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income](#tx-rtn-spcfct) below.

##### Spouse’s or common-law partner’s universal child care benefit (UCCB)

The spouse or common-law partner who has the lower net income (whether a return would be filed or not) must report the UCCB income. Enter the amount of the UCCB and/or any UCCB repayment reported by the spouse or common-law partner with the lower net income.

#### Residency information for tax administration agreements

##### Yukon First Nation identification numbers

The acceptable entries for clients living on the Settlement Land of a self-government Yukon First Nation on December 31 of the tax year are:

- 11001 = Carcross/Tagish

- 11002 = Champagne and Aishihik

- 11003 = Kluane

- 11004 = Kwanlin Dun

- 11006 = Little Salmon/Carmacks

- 11007 = Nacho Nyak Dun

- 11009 = Selkirk

- 11010 = Ta’an Kwäch’än

- 11011 = Teslin Tlingit

- 11012 = Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in

- 11013 = Vuntut Gwitchin

#### Telephone number

On page 8 of the return, enter the three digits of the area code followed by the telephone number. Do not key spaces or dashes. Always enter the client’s telephone number on discounted returns.

### Tax return specifications

This part contains specific instructions as they relate to the preparation of the electronic return. Most of the information you may require to complete the return is contained in the Federal Income Tax and Benefit Information and other supplementary guides.

#### Assessment under subsection 152(7)

Under certain criteria, the CRA has the authority under subsection 152(7) of the Income Tax Act to prepare and assess a return on behalf of a taxpayer. The taxpayer is required by law to pay the taxes owing on the assessment but has the right to submit a return to amend the 152(7) assessment. The CRA will accept the amended return electronically. However, the amended return must not contain more than 80 line changes; otherwise, a paper return is required.

#### Canada Pension Plan/Quebec Pension Plan (CPP/QPP) contributions

When making an entry for the CPP/QPP pensionable earnings, do not reduce by the basic CPP/QPP exemption.

Where the client is electing to pay additional CPP contributions (Form CPT20, Election to Pay Canada Pension Plan Contributions), enter the amount of the elective income not shown on a T4 slip on line 50373, and the election amounts related to under-deducted T4 contributions on line 50399.

#### Canada Recovery Benefits Act

The Canada Recovery Benefits Act was enacted on October 2, 2020, to provide the following payments:

- Canada Recovery Benefit (CRB) – Reported under code 202 on the T4A slip.

- Canada Recovery Sickness Benefit (CRSB) – Reported under code 203 on the T4A slip.

- Canada Recovery Caregiving Benefit (CRCB) – Reported under code 204 on the T4A slip.

The CRA will withhold income tax at source on these payments. Report the income on line 13000 and include the tax withheld on line 43700. The software should build line 53450 with the amount of the reported T4A income.

The Canada Recovery Benefit (code 202 of the T4A slip) is subject to claw back under certain conditions. Calculate the repayment using the Federal Worksheet and report the amount, if any, on line 23500 (Social benefits repayment) of the tax return.

Include on line 23200 the amount of all federal and/or provincial or territorial COVID-19 benefit repayments.

#### Communal organizations

Income allocated to members of a communal organization is reported in box 26 on a T3 slip. The software should build line 53650 with this income. Such income would be considered “earned income” for registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) purposes. However, members of a communal organization are not permitted to contribute to a RRSP or claim a deduction for RRSP on line 20800 on the return.

This income is also considered working income for the purposes of the Canada workers benefit (CWB). Such income as reported on lines 13500 to 14300 will be included in the calculation of the CWB on Schedule 6.

#### Deceased returns

When a valid election is made under subsection 104(13.4) of the Income Tax Act, the software should build the indicator for this election to "1." It is the only valid entry for this indicator. The election must also be accompanied by the amount of the election. The software must build line 52080 with the election amount. The software must not use $0 as the election amount or build line 52080 to $1 for processing purposes. For more on this election and other information, see Guide T4011, Preparing Returns for Deceased Persons.

#### Discounted returns

Ensure the amounts entered on lines 65050, 65070 and 65090 on the Form RC71, Statement of Discounting Transaction, are correct. Do not submit the form to the CRA unless requested.

Discounting on the following types of return is not allowed:

- Emigrant returns.

- Section 116 for disposition of taxable Canadian property by non-residents.

- Section 250 for deemed residents.

#### Elections indicator

Indicate if the client is making an election, designation, agreement, waiver, or special elective return at the time of filing the tax return. The software should build line 9906 with an entry of "1." An entry on this line does not constitute an election; it is designed only to inform the CRA that an election, a letter or note containing the required information is being submitted in paper format.

Do not indicate an election which is not required to be made at the time of filing the return. These elections will have to be submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Act.

#### Foreign business income

If foreign business income is from box 24 of a T3 slip, Statement of Trust Income Allocations and Designations, the amount must be reported on lines 13499 and 13500 of the tax return. A selected financial data (SFD) statement type 02 must be completed. Complete the lines in the identification area of the SFD as follows:

- Your name and business name – Enter taxpayer's name.

- Business address (including city, province or territory and postal code) – Enter taxpayer's address of residence on the tax return.

- Fiscal period – From January 1 to December 31 (or to the date of death) of the tax year.

- Industry code – Enter 526912.

- Lines 8000, 8299, 8519, 9369 and 9946 – Enter the amount from box 24 of the T3 slip.

#### Form CPT30, Election to Stop Contributing to the Canada Pension Plan, or Revocation of a Prior Election

Working beneficiaries aged 65 to 70 who elected to opt out of contributing to the CPP or are revoking a prior election should submit the completed Form CPT30 to their employer and send a copy to the CRA. The election/revocation will apply to all income from pensionable employment, including self-employment earnings. Send the original completed form to the Winnipeg Tax Centre using the address shown on the back of the form. Individuals with self-employed income only should not use Form CPT30 when they want to revoke a previous election. Instead, they should indicate the revocation effective date on Schedule 8 when they file their tax return.

Paragraph 19(d) of the Canada Pension Plan Act requires that the CPP basic exemption be calculated differently in the year an individual commences receiving CPP retirement benefits. Individuals can commence receiving CPP retirement benefits at age 60. This provision is intended to protect an individual's entitlement to the survivor, child and death benefits, based on pre-retirement earnings. The provision under paragraph 19(d) does not apply to the Quebec Pension Plan.

#### Form RC381, Inter-Provincial Calculation for CPP and QPP Contributions and Overpayments

The Canada Pension Plan (CPP) Act was amended to provide for the enhancement of pensions. The government of Quebec also adopted legislative amendments to enhance the Quebec Pension Plan (QPP) in a similar way to the federal plan. The enhancements are funded by additional enhanced contributions beginning in January 2019.

Since 2013, the CPP and the QPP have different base contribution rates. The CRA must be able to calculate the CPP and/or QPP contributions separately using the applicable rate(s). Complete the Form RC381 if one of the following situations applies:

- Your client earned employment income in the province of Quebec in the tax year and they were a resident of a province or territory other than Quebec on December 31 of the tax year.

- Your client earned employment income in a province or territory other than Quebec in the tax year and they were a resident of Quebec on December 31 of the tax year.

If these situations do not apply, complete Schedule 8, Canada Pension Plan Contributions and Overpayment, or Schedule 8, Quebec Pension Plan Contributions, whichever applies.

A second CPP/QPP contribution limit was introduced January 1, 2024. This new limit, or second earnings ceiling, subjects worker’s earnings to two earnings limits. Employees and employers each contribute an additional 4% on earnings above the first earnings ceiling, up to the amount of the second earnings ceiling. For self-employment income and other earnings, an additional 8% is contributed by the individual. Contributions through employment will appear in box 16A and 17A of the T4 slip as “Employee’s second CPP contributions (CPP2)” and “Employee’s second QPP contributions (QPP2), respectively.

The CRA will use the information you provided on the Form RC381 to determine the portion of the yearly basic exemption, and the maximum contributory earnings, that will be applied to the CPP and the portion that will be applied to the QPP.

#### Form T1A, Request for Loss Carryback

Where a carryback of a current year loss under sections 111 and 41 of the Income Tax Act is requested, a reassessment to the applicable year will be processed and a notice of reassessment will be issued when the adjustment is complete. The CRA’s goal is to issue a reassessment notice within an average of eight weeks. For electronic returns, the Form T1A does not have to be submitted to the CRA.

#### Instalments

Ensure the instalment payments that the client remitted to the CRA are included on line 47600. Do not include instalment payments as tax deducted at source.

#### Investment tax credit

Where a carryback of an investment tax credit is requested, a reassessment to the applicable year will be processed and a notice of reassessment will be issued when the adjustment is complete. The CRA’s goal is to issue a reassessment notice within an average of eight weeks.

#### Manitoba tax credits

If a client who is married or living common-law is entitled to a claim based on entries made on the Form MB479, but no claim is being made because the spouse or common-law partner is making the claim, ensure your tax preparation software does not permit the transfer of the lines from the Form MB479.

If there is an entry for the spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income and there is a claim for the spouse or common-law partner amount, line 60900 for the personal tax credit is required even where the calculated Manitoba personal tax credit is zero.

When claiming the Manitoba refundable tax credits on the Form MB479 – such as the personal tax credit, the homeowners affordability tax credit, the renters affordability tax credit, and/or the seniors’ school tax rebate – if the client and/or their spouse or common-law partner received employment and income assistance (EIA) payments from the province of Manitoba in the tax year, an entry on lin 61255 is required.

Enter on line 61255 the number from box 14 on the T5007 slip. If box 14 is blank, "0" or "0.00," enter "101." If there are multiple slips, enter the lowest number shown in box 14. If the client and their spouse or common-law partner both received EIA, enter the number shown in box 14 of either the client’s or their spouse’s or common-law partner's T5007 slip, whichever is less.

Where the client and their spouse or common-law partner only received social assistance benefits from the federal government and/or from a province or territory other than Manitoba, enter "100" on line 61255.

#### Negative net income on line 23600

Starting with the 2024 tax year, a negative net income on line 23600 for a taxpayer and/or their spouse or common law partner must be recorded and used in the calculation of the adjusted net income for the taxpayer, or their spouse or common-law partner, or both, for the following amounts:

- Basic personal amount

- Age amount

- Spouse or common-law partner amount

- Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner

- Foreign tax credit

- Refundable medical expenses supplement

- Canada workers benefit

- Provincial and territorial taxes for multiple jurisdictions

- Low income tax reduction (NL, PE, NS, NB and BC)

- ON childcare access and relief from expenses tax credit

- ON seniors care at home tax credit

- ON low income individuals and families tax credit

- MB refundable tax credits

- SK active families benefit

- BC refundable tax credits

Where the resulting adjusted net income is a negative amount, line 23600 will be set to zero before being used in the calculation of a certain tax credit. For more information, go to [canada.ca/line 23600](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/topics/about-your-tax-return/tax-return/completing-a-tax-return/deductions-credits-expenses/line-23600-net-income.html).

Where the spouse’s or common law partner’s net income is a negative amount, refer to [**Spouse’s or common law partner’s net income**](#tx-rtn-spcfct) below.

The TOSI-adjusted net income must be used when calculating certain federal, provincial, and territorial amounts. For more information, go to [canada.ca/form T1206](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t1206.html).

#### Newcomers to Canada

To calculate whether to claim the full or prorated non-refundable tax credits, indicate in Canadian dollars if the client has any Canadian sourced non-resident income, excluding the income subject to Part XIII tax, and/or any Canadian sourced non-resident income subject to Part XIII tax plus foreign sourced non-resident income. The software should build line 52920 and line 52930 respectively with these income. Go to [canada.ca/cra-non-residents-canada](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/international-non-residents/individuals-leaving-entering-canada-non-residents/non-residents-canada.html) for more information. Refer to the pamphlet T4055, Newcomers to Canada, for the proration calculations.

For the following income, report only the income earned in Canada:

- Line 11300 – Old age security (OAS) pension

- Line 11400 – CPP or QPP benefits

- Line 11500 – Other pensions or superannuation

- Line 11900 – Employment insurance (EI) and other benefits

- Line 12600 – Rental income (or loss)

- Line 12900 – Registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) income

#### No income

Indicate when the client has no income to report, that is, no entry on any line from 10100 to 15000. The software should build line 9915 with an entry of "1."

#### Patronage allowances

Where the client received non-taxable patronage allocations on which income tax was withheld, claim the tax deducted on line 43700. Indicate the income on which this tax was deducted. The software should build line 53450 with this income amount.

#### Placement agency

If a self-employed worker, engaged by a placement agency, received a T4 slip with CPP/QPP and EI premiums deducted, with code 11 in box 29, and no entry in box 14, update as follows:

If boxes 26 and 28 are blank, update the pensionable CPP earnings (line 50339) and/or the pensionable QPP earnings (line 50329) with the lesser of:

- The gross self-employment income reported in respect of that T4 slip; or

- The maximum CPP/QPP pensionable earnings for the year.

If boxes 24 and 28 are blank, update the EI insurable earnings (line 54780) with the lesser of:

- The gross self-employment income reported in respect of that T4 slip; or

- The maximum EI insurable earnings for the year.

The software should build line 53470 with the amount of the T4 placement agency income reported on the self-employment lines.

If T4 placement agency income is the only income reported on the self-employment lines, enter 1 on line 50371 on the Schedule 8 or the Form RC381.

#### Pre-bankruptcy returns

All income reported and deductions claimed are from January 1 to the day before the date of bankruptcy.

The number of months used in the “2025 Enrolment information” section on the Schedule 11, Federal Tuition, Education, and Textbook Amounts and Canada Training Credit, cannot exceed the number of months up to and including the month the client became bankrupt.

Line 32600 (federal amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner) is prorated based on the number of days from January 1 to the day before the date of bankruptcy. Do not prorate the lines on the Schedule 2 (lines 35200, 35300, 35500, 35700, 36000, 36100).

The following federal claims are not allowed on a pre-bankruptcy return:

- Line 24600 – Home Buyers’ Plan (HBP) repayment

- Line 24620 – Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP) repayment

- Line 41500 – Advanced Canada workers benefit

- Line 44800 – CPP or QPP overpayment

- Line 45000 – EI overpayment

- Line 45200 – Refundable medical expense supplement

- Line 45300 – Canada workers benefit (CWB)

- Line 45350 – Canada training credit (CTC)

- Line 45355 – Multigenerational home renovation tax credit

- Line 48800 – Refund transfer to the instalment account for the following year

The following types of pre-bankruptcy returns are not accepted for EFILE. A paper return is required:

- There is an immigration date on the return.

- There is an emigration date on the return.

- The return is filed under section 116.

- The return is filed under section 250.

#### Qualifying Retroactive Lump-Sum Payment

If the taxpayer has more than one Qualifying Retroactive Lump-Sum Payment (QRLSP), indicate the cumulative total on the appropriate lines on the Form T1198.

#### Refund transfer

Indicate if the client wants to transfer the refund to the next year’s instalment account. The software should build line 48800 with an entry of “1.”

#### Rental income

If more than one rental property is covered by the SFD record, enter the address and postal code of the property that generated the highest gross rental income.

#### Restricted farm loss

If the chief source of income is neither from farming nor from a combination of farming and some other source of income, you can only deduct a portion of the farm loss for the year. The portion of the loss that you cannot deduct becomes a restricted farm loss. The restricted farm loss limit is $17,500 annually. This means that if your net farm loss is $32,500 or more, you can deduct $17,500 from the other income. The software should build line 54950 with the total farming loss. For more information, see Guide T4002, Self-employed Business, Professional, Commission, Farming, and Fishing Income.

#### Selected financial data (SFD) records

Complete a SFD record using the applicable type when the client is reporting any of the following:

- SFD type 01 – Form T776, Statement of Real Estate Rentals

- SFD type 02 – Form T2125, Statement of Business or Professional Activities (business and commissions)

- SFD type 03 – Form T2125, Statement of Business or Professional Activities (professional)

- SFD type 04 – Form T2121, Statement of Fishing Activities

- SFD type 05 – Form T2042, Statement of Farming Activities

- SFD type 06 – AgriStability and AgriInvest programs (Form T1163 and Form T1273)

- SFD type 07 – Form T777, Statement of Employment Expenses

- SFD type 08 – Form TL2, Claim for Meals and Lodging Expenses

- SFD type 09 – AgriStability and AgriInvest programs (pages 1 and 7 of Form T1273)

- SFD type 11 – Form T2091(IND), Designation of a Property as a Principal Residence by an Individual

- SFD type 12 – Form T1255, Designation of a Property as a Principal Residence by the Legal Representative of a Deceased Individual

Note also the following:

- A separate SFD record is to be completed for each source of income or expenses or for each property disposed.

- SFD type 06 is to record the information from the Form T1163 and from pages 1 to 5 of the Form T1273. The supplementary information on page 7 of the Form T1273 is recorded as SFD type 09.

- There must be one SFD type 06 for every SFD type 09 and they count as two different SFDs.

- A client reporting more than 80 lines in the free format area of SFD types 01 to 08 is not eligible to EFILE. Refer to [Exclusions from electronic filing](#toc14) for the maximum occurrences allowed for SFD type 09.

- A client reporting more than 12 SFD records is not eligible to EFILE.

- A SFD using the appropriate type 01, 02, 03, 04, or 05 is required for a client who is an active partner or is reporting rental, fishing or farming income (or loss) from a T5013 slip. There is no requirement to capture the address information from a T5013 slip.

#### Spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income

The spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income is identified in the “Identification and other information” area on the paper return. This income will be used in the calculations of certain non-refundable and refundable tax credits, and provincial or territorial tax and credits.

Where the marital status is married or living common-law and the net income is zero or negative, the software should build line 9918 with an entry of “1.”

Where the spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income is a negative amount, the software should build this amount on line 51051 as a positive amount. Line 51051 can only be present if the spouse's or common-law partner's net income is zero or nil and line 9918 is equal to “1”.

If your client is a newcomer to Canada, indicate the spouse’s or common-law partner’s net income earned during the period the client was living in Canada and the net income earned during the period the client was living outside Canada. The software should build line 52630 and line 52670 respectively with the income amount. Also indicate if either amount is zero or negative. The software should build the line with an entry of "1" for processing purposes.

#### Tax deducted

If your client resides outside the province of Quebec and was employed in the province of Quebec, indicate the income and tax deducted on the relevé 1 (information slip from the province of Quebec).

When there is an election to split pension income on the Form T1032, include the amount of income from the Quebec information slips that are in the client’s name, regardless if a portion has been transferred to the spouse or common-law partner on line 21000. Likewise, where Quebec tax deductions are included on line 68050, only include the amount if the slips are in the client’s name.

The software should build line 53490 with the Quebec tax deducted and line 53500 with the income on which the Quebec tax was withheld.

#### Tax deducted transfer

Line 43800 is applicable only for residents of Quebec who were employed outside the province of Quebec in the tax year. Do not include tax deductions withheld on CPP/QPP and/or EI benefits.

#### Tax preparer code

When the return was prepared by a tax professional, indicate whether a fee was charged. The software should build line 49000 with an entry of "1" if a fee was charged, and with an entry of "2" if no fee was charged.

#### Volunteer program

Indicate if the return was completed under the Community Volunteer Income Tax Program. The software should build line 48700 with an entry of "1."

#### Wage-loss replacement plans

Indicate if an amount of premiums paid to a wage-loss replacement plan has been used to reduce the benefits reported. Report only the amount of the net benefits on line 10400. Enter the contributions made to a wage-loss replacement plan on line 10130.

The software should build line 9916 with the amount of premiums used to reduce the benefits reported on line 10400.

### Taxes and benefits for Indigenous Peoples

Throughout the following text, for purposes of the tax exemption under section 87 of the Indian Act, the CRA uses the term “Indian” because it has a legal meaning in the Indian Act.

Individuals with registered status under the Indian Act are subject to the same tax rules as other Canadian residents unless their income is eligible for tax exemption under section 87 of the Indian Act. The exemption applies to the income that is earned on a reserve or that is considered to be earned on a reserve, as well as to goods bought on, or delivered to, a reserve. However, a member of a First Nations group that has negotiated a self-governing or tax agreement with the Government of Canada may not qualify for the exemption under section 87 of the Indian Act. To find out, contact the First Nations government.

Indicate on the return if the client has any income that is exempt under the Indian Act. If yes, complete Form T90, Income Exempt from Tax under the Indian Act. The CRA uses information provided on the form to calculate the Canada training credit limit, and if applicable, the Canada workers benefit.

See below for some examples of exempt income that a status Indian may receive.

#### Employment income

Non-taxable salary or wages paid to status Indians are indicated on a T4 slip as follows, if the total employment income is exempt. For working income calculation purposes, the non-taxable earnings from box 71 should be reported on line 1 of Form T90 and be included on line 10000 (Total exempt working income).

Application for coverage under the CPP (Form CPT124):

- Box 14 should be blank. In the "Other information" area on the T4 slip, box 71 should indicate the amount of the non-taxable earnings for a status Indian employee.

- Indicate the non-taxable earnings from box 71 that is included in box 14. The software should build line 53470 with this amount.

- Update line 50329 (QPP pensionable earnings where the province of employment is Quebec) and/or line 50339 (CPP pensionable earnings where the province of employment is other than Quebec) with the amount indicated in box 26 (maximum of $81,200 per slip).

No application for coverage under the CPP:

- Box 14 should be blank. In the "Other information" area on the T4 slip, box 71 should indicate the amount of the non-taxable earnings for a status Indian employee.

- Indicate the non-taxable earnings from box 71 that is included in box 14. The software should build line 53470 with this amount.

Indicate if the client has only exempt T4 income and no other income to report (no entries are being made on lines 10100 to 15000). The software should build line 9915 with an entry of "1."

If the client has exempt T4 income and also other income to report (entries are being made on lines 10400 to 15000), the software should build line 53470 with the non-taxable earnings from box 71.

Do not claim any deductions withheld for registered pension plan contributions, union or professional dues and/or other employment expenses on the non-taxable earnings. Where CPP/QPP contributions and/or EI premiums were withheld, update the appropriate lines.

#### Self-employment income

Tax-exempt self-employed income is reported in box 88 of the T4 slip. For working income calculation purposes, the exempt net self-employment income (excluding losses) should be reported on line 3 of Form T90 and be included on line 10000 (Total exempt working income).

Where the total self-employment income is exempt, do not make any entry on the self-employment lines and do not prepare any SFD records.

Where the client is electing to pay additional CPP contributions on the self-employment income not shown on a T4 slip (Form CPT20), enter the exempt net self-employment income on line 50373 on the Schedule 8 or Form RC381.

#### Employment insurance, provincial parental insurance plan, and other benefits (including EI and Quebec maternity and parental benefits)

These benefits are reported on a T4E slip, as follows:

- Total benefits paid (box 14)

- Tax-exempt benefits (box 18, included in box 14)

- EI maternity and parental benefits (not identified on the T4E slip)

- Income tax deducted (box 22)

- Provincial parental insurance plan (PPIP) benefits (box 36, included in box 14)

Report these amounts on the Form T90 and/or on the return as follows:

- Box 14 minus box 18 – line 11900 on the return

- Box 18 – Line 9 on the Form T90

- Exempt EI maternity and paternal benefits and PPIP benefits – line 10019 on Form T90

- EI maternity and paternal benefits and PPIP benefits (taxable portion) – Line 11905 on the return

- Box 22 – line 43700 on the return

Where tax was withheld on the income (box 22 on the T4E slip and line 43700 on the return), the software should build line 53450 with the income on which the tax was withheld.

#### CPP/QPP benefits

Enter the amount of benefits from box 20 of the T4A(P) slip on line 11400 on the return. Enter the tax-exempt portion on line 23200 of the return and on line 5 of Form T90.

#### Training allowances

The amount of training allowances received that is tax-exempt should not be included as income on the return. However, for working income calculation purposes, include the tax-exempt training allowances that would have otherwise been reported on line 10400 of the return on line 2 of the Form T90.

#### Other types of exempt income and tax deducted at source on exempt income

Indicate any other types of exempt income not received from a T4 slip or not mentioned above on the appropriate lines on the Form T90. Indicate any tax withheld on the income and the software should build line 53450 with the income on which the tax was withheld.

Not all exempt income reported should be included on line 23200, Other deductions.

#### Pooled registered pension plans

Complete Form RC383 to allow the CRA to calculate and track your client’s non-deductible pooled registered pension plans (PRPP) room and non-deductible PRPP contributions on tax-exempt earned income. Enter the total amount of tax-exempt employment earnings on line 58750. Enter the total tax-exempt self-employment earnings and other tax-exempt earned income on line 58810.

Gross tax-exempt employment earnings are reported in box 71 of the T4 slip, and gross tax-exempt self-employment earnings are reported in box 88 of the T4 slip. Your client may have other tax-exempt earned income not included on an information slip.

Contributions to a PRPP from tax-exempt income are not deductible on the taxpayer’s return; however, they can be used as a repayment under the HBP or the LLP.

#### Canada workers benefit

Complete Form T90 to report income that is tax-exempt under the Indian Act. The information provided may be used to calculate the Canada workers benefit (CWB) for the tax year. Indicate on line 38105 on the Schedule 6 whether your client chooses to include the tax-exempt income in calculating the CWB.

If your client has an eligible spouse for CWB purposes, include on line 38109 the eligible spouse’s total net exempt income earned on a reserve and the tax-exempt portion of any allowance received as an emergency volunteer.

Line 38107 should include the eligible spouse’s tax-exempt working income earned on a reserve and the tax-exempt portion of any allowance received as an emergency volunteer.

Starting in 2024, an individual who emigrated from Canada would not be considered to have met the eligibility requirement for the purpose of claiming the CWB on line 45300.

#### Canada training credit limit

Subsection 122.91(2) of the Income Tax Act introduced the Canada training credit limit (CTCL) effective for the 2019 and subsequent tax years and a new refundable tax credit called the Canada training credit (CTC) effective for the 2020 and subsequent tax years. Eligible individuals will be able to accumulate $250 each year in the calculation of their CTCL, up to a maximum of $5,000 over their lifetime. The annual accumulation of the $250 amount will start in 2019 based on eligibility determined using information from the Form T90 and the tax return filed for the 2019 tax year. Eligible individuals will be able to claim the Canada training credit beginning with the 2020 tax return. Refer to the Federal Income Tax and Benefit Information for more information.

Starting in 2024, an individual who emigrated from Canada would not be considered to have met the eligibility requirement for the purpose of increasing their CTCL. They also cannot claim the CTC on line 45350.

### Other deductions related to exempt income

Complete Form T90 to claim the registered pension plan (RPP) deductions (box 94 of T4 slip(s)), union dues (box 95 of T4 slip(s)), and any other deductions relating to the exempt income earned. For more information, go to [canada.ca/taxes-deductions](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/topics/about-your-tax-return/tax-return/completing-a-tax-return/deductions-credits-expenses/deductions-credits-expenses.html).

### Residency type and residency status

The EFILE service will accept and process the following non-resident types:

- Emigrant taxpayers (2023 and subsequent tax years)

- Deemed residents of Canada (2024 and subsequent tax years)

- Non-residents filing returns under section 116 (2023 and subsequent tax years)

It is mandatory for the software to indicate the residency type on all resident, non-resident, deemed resident, immigrant and emigrant returns. Depending on the residency type, software must build line 17700 with the applicable residency status indicator.

There are seven possible residency types.

| Residency Type | Action |  |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 1 | Canadian resident | Accept and process the return. |

| 2 | Factual resident | Software must require the taxpayer to indicate their residency status as per Form T1248 Schedule D, Information About Your Residency Status, and generate line 17700 with the applicable residency status indicator. There are three possible residency statuses. Only residency status 5 (line 17700 = 5) will be accepted for EFILE. 1 = Non-resident 2 = Deemed non-resident 5 = Factual resident |

| 3 | Non-resident or Deemed resident (other than residency type 6 or 7) | Software must require the taxpayer to provide information about their residency status as per 5013-R, Income Tax and Benefit Return for Non-Residents and Deemed Residents of Canada, and generate line 17700 with the applicable residency status indicator. There are four possible residency statuses: 1 = Non-resident 2 = Deemed non-resident 3 = Deemed resident (183 days or more) 4 = Deemed resident (other reasons) |

| 4 | Immigrant – entered Canada within the tax year | Accept and process the return. |

| 5 | Emigrant – left Canada within the tax year | Software must ask the taxpayer if they are attempting to submit a form T1243, T1244 and/or T1161. If “Yes” – Software will produce a warning that a paper return is required. None of the lines on the above forms are valid for EFILE. If “No” – Accept and process the return based on a valid emigration date. |

| 6 | Deemed resident reporting only business income with a permanent establishment in Canada | These returns are not accepted for EFILE. |

| 7 | Deemed resident reporting income from a business with a permanent establishment outside Canada and/or rental income from a property located outside Canada | These returns are not accepted for EFILE. |

There are five possible residency statuses.

| Residency status | Action |  |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 1 | Non-resident | If the residency status is “1” or “2,” software must ask the taxpayer which of the following returns they are attempting to file: Section 115 – Non-resident reporting employment income Section 116 – Non-residents reporting **only** a disposition of taxable Canadian property Section 216 – Non-resident reporting **only** Canadian rental income Section 217 – Non-resident reporting Canadian pension income Only returns filed under section 116 will be accepted for EFILE. |

| 2 | Deemed non-resident |  |

| 3 | Deemed resident (183 days or more) | Residency status = 3 is not accepted for EFILE. A paper return will be required. |

| 4 | Deemed resident (other reasons) | Accept the return as a deemed resident filing under section 250. |

| 5 | Factual resident | Accept and process the return. |

## Information for tax preparers and software developers

### Exclusions from electronic filing

Electronic filing (EFILE) is only available for a tax return for the current and seven prior tax years. While most taxpayers will qualify to have their returns filed using EFILE, certain situations may still exclude a taxpayer from EFILE for these years. Please refer to the following criteria. Go to [canada.ca/cra-efile-file-returns](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/e-services/digital-services-individuals/efile-electronic-filers/file-returns.html) and select "Exclusions" for a full list of exclusions.

1. Foreign workers employed in Canada under the Seasonal Agricultural Workers Program who are non-residents or deemed non-residents. For more information, go to [canada.ca/seasonal-agricultural-workers-program](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/payroll/payroll-deductions-contributions/special-situations/seasonal-agricultural-workers-program.html).

2. Taxpayers who are deemed residents filing as Sojourners or Commuters are excluded. Only deemed residents for other reasons [i.e., line 17700 (Residency status code) = 4] are accepted through EFILE. Deemed residents who are reporting self-employment income on Form T2203, or rental income from a property located outside Canada, remain as exclusions.

3. Taxpayers who died prior to the current tax year. Early filed and elective deceased returns also remain as exclusions.

4. Taxpayers whose social insurance number (SIN) begins with a zero. Only newcomers to Canada and/or those filing their returns under section 116 with a SIN starting with a zero are eligible to use EFILE.

5. For taxpayers who are coded bankrupt according to the Canada Revenue Agency’s records, their tax return for the year immediately prior to the year of bankruptcy is an exclusion and must be filed by the trustee in bankruptcy (if not previously filed by the taxpayer). The in-bankruptcy and post-bankruptcy returns are also exclusions from EFILE. Only pre-bankruptcy returns that are not early filed are accepted through EFILE.

6. Taxpayers who are emigrants filing one of forms T1243, T1244 and/or T1161, or are reporting self-employment income on Form T2203, are excluded. Otherwise, an emigrant return is accepted through EFILE.

7. Taxpayers who are non-residents are excluded, unless the return is filed under section 116 of the Income Tax Act (ITA).

8. Taxpayers who are filing or reporting the following forms and returns are excluded from EFILE:

    1. Schedule A, Statement of World Income – Non-Residents of Canada, unless it is for a return filed under section 116 of the ITA.

    2. Schedule B, Allowable Amount of Non-Refundable Tax Credits – Non-Resident of Canada, unless it is for a return filed under section 116 of the ITA.

    3. Schedule C, Electing Under Section 217 of the Income Tax Act – Non-Resident of Canada.

    4. Form T1136, Old Age Security Return of Income.

    5. Form T1159, Income Tax Return for Electing Under Section 216.

    6. Income from the following information slips:

          1. NR4, Statement of amounts paid or credited to non-residents of Canada.

          2. T4A-NR, Statement of Fees, Commissions, or Other Amounts Paid to Non-Residents for Services Rendered in Canada.

          3. NR-OAS, Statement of Old Age Security Pension Paid or Credited to Non-Residents of Canada.

9. Taxpayers who are filing Form RC199, Voluntary Disclosures Program (VDP), Taxpayer Agreement, or are making a request to the VDP.

10. Taxpayers who are electing to defer tax on a distribution of spin-off shares by foreign corporations.

11. Taxpayers who are reporting any of the following:

    1. Canadian-source income from Lloyds of London.

    2. Employment income earned from an international organization.

    3. Lump-sum pension income accrued to December 31, 1971.

    4. More than 12 selected financial data (SFD) records.

    5. Ontario, Saskatchewan, British Columbia, or Yukon qualifying environmental (mining reclamation) trust tax credit.

    6. More than 80 lines present in the free format area of SFD types 01 to 08.

12. Taxpayers who are claiming any of the following:

    1. Less than the maximum federal foreign tax credit.

    2. Business income tax paid to more than three foreign countries.

    3. Non-business income tax paid to more than three foreign countries.

    4. Deduction for scientific research and experimental development expenses.

    5. Form T89, Alberta Stock Savings Plan Tax Credit.

    6. Nova Scotia research and development tax credit recapture.

13. Taxpayers who are reporting farming income with the AgriStability and AgriInvest programs which involves any of the following:

    1. Farming income from a partnership reported on a T5013 slip.

    2. Farming income from a partnership that includes a corporate partner.

    3. Status Indian reporting tax-exempt self-employed income.

    4. SFD type 06 that has exceeded the maximum occurrences for the following lines:

          1. 29 occurrences of "Total of commodity sales and program payments" on line 9950.

          2. 29 occurrences of "Total of commodity purchases and repayment of program benefits" on line 9960.

    5. SFD type 09 that has exceeded the maximum occurrences in the following sections:

          1. 50 occurrences for "Crop inventory valuation and productive capacity."

          2. 50 occurrences for "Livestock inventory valuation."

          3. 8 occurrences for "Purchased inputs."

          4. 19 occurrences for "Livestock productive capacity."

          5. 8 occurrences for "Deferred income and receivables."

          6. 8 occurrences for "Accounts payable."

### Appendix A – Provincial and territorial alpha characters

The following characters must be used whenever an entry for a province or a territory is required.

| Characters | Province/Territory |

| --- | --- |

| NL | Newfoundland and Labrador |

| PE | Prince Edward Island |

| NS | Nova Scotia |

| NB | New Brunswick |

| QC | Quebec |

| ON | Ontario |

| MB | Manitoba |

| SK | Saskatchewan |

| AB | Alberta |

| BC | British Columbia |

| NT | Northwest Territories |

| YT | Yukon |

| NU | Nunavut |

| EX | Other |

### Appendix B – Valid characters

The following chart illustrates the acceptable characters for some of the identification records. In general, key hyphens using a dash, and Roman numerals are to be keyed as alpha characters.

| Character | Given name | Surname | "care of" line | Spouse name | Street address | City | Province/State | Postal code | ZIP code | Country |

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Alphabetic | X | X | X | X | X | X | X | X [Footnote0](#fn0) | - | X |

| Numeric | X | X | X | X | X | X | - | X [Footnote0](#fn0) | X | - |

| Space | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | X [Footnote1](#fn1) | - | - | - | - |

| Hyphen | X | X [Footnote2](#fn2) | X [Footnote2](#fn2) | X | X [Footnote2](#fn2) | X | - | - | - | - |

| Apostrophe | X | X | X [Footnote3](#fn3) | X | X [Footnote3](#fn3) | X | - | - | - | - |

| Period | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | X [Footnote4](#fn4) | - | - | - | - |

| Slash | - | - | X [Footnote5](#fn5) | - | X [Footnote5](#fn5) | X | - | - | - | - |

| Ampersand | - | - | X [Footnote6](#fn6) | - | X [Footnote6](#fn6) | - | - | - | - | - |

| Diacritic | X | X | X | X | X | X | - | - | - | - |

| Brackets | - | - | - | - | X [Footnote7](#fn7) | - | - | - | - | - |

| Pound sign | - | - | - | - | X [Footnote8](#fn8) | - | - | - | - | - |

### Appendix C – Treasury Board of Canada addressing standard

The record length for a taxpayer’s street and/or mailing address is 60 characters. In order to ensure that the most accurate address information is captured for mailing purposes, the taxpayer’s address information should be captured in the following order:

#### Apartment number

When an address includes an alpha character as part of the apartment or unit number, key a hyphen between the apartment or unit number and the street number. Do not key any spaces before or after the hyphen. See the following examples:

- 313D-2233 Main Street

- D-2233 Main Street

- D313-2233 Main Street

#### Building unit identifier

A number or alpha code which uniquely identifies a unit of a specific type within a building.

#### Civic site street number

Enter the number assigned to a specific civic site by the official municipality or relevant authority.

#### Civic site street number suffix

Enter an alpha character or fraction added to a civic site number by an official municipality or relevant authority.

#### Street direction code

Enter Canada Post Corporation’s mnemonic code for street direction. The acceptable entries are:

- E = East

- N = North

- NE = Northeast

- NW = Northwest

- S = South

- SE = Southeast

- SW = Southwest

- W = West

#### Street name

Enter the full name of a street, roadway, or artery assigned by an official municipality or relevant authority.

#### Street type code

Enter the street type code in addition to the street name to uniquely designate the street from other streets having the same street name. See Appendix D.

### Appendix D – Street type codes

| Street type | Code |

| --- | --- |

| Abbey | ABBEY |

| Acres | ACRES |

| Allée | ALLÉE |

| Alley | ALLEY |

| Autoroute | AUT |

| Avenue (English) | AVE |

| Avenue (French) | AV |

| Bay | BAY |

| Beach | BEACH |

| Bend | BEND |

| Boulevard (English) | BLVD |

| Boulevard (French) | BOUL |

| By-Pass | BYPASS |

| Byway | BYWAY |

| Campus | CAMPUS |

| Cape | CAPE |

| Carré | CAR |

| Carrefour | CARREF |

| Centre (English) | CTR |

| Centre (French) | C |

| Cercle | CERCLE |

| Chase | CHASE |

| Chemin | CH |

| Circle | CIR |

| Circuit | CIRCT |

| Close | CLOSE |

| Common | COMMON |

| Concession | CONC |

| Corners | CRNRS |

| Côte | CÔTE |

| Cour | COUR |

| Cours | COURS |

| Court | CRT |

| Cove | COVE |

| Crescent | CRES |

| Croissant | CROIS |

| Crossing | CROSS |

| Cul-de-sac | CDS |

| Dale | DALE |

| Dell | DELL |

| Diversion | DIVERS |

| Downs | DOWNS |

| Drive | DR |

| Échangeur | ÉCH |

| End | END |

| Esplanade | ESPL |

| Estates | ESTATE |

| Expressway | EXPY |

| Extension | EXTEN |

| Farm | FARM |

| Field | FIELD |

| Forest | FOREST |

| Freeway | FWY |

| Front | FRONT |

| Gardens | GDNS |

| Gate | GATE |

| Glade | GLADE |

| Glen | GLEN |

| Green | GREEN |

| Grounds | GRNDS |

| Grove | GROVE |

| Harbour | HARBR |

| Heights | HTS |

| Highlands | HGHLDS |

| Highway | HWY |

| Hill | HILL |

| Hollow | HOLLOW |

| Île | ÎLE |

| Impasse | IMP |

| Inlet | INLET |

| Island | ISLAND |

| Key | KEY |

| Knoll | KNOLL |

| Landing | LANDNG |

| Lane | LANE |

| Limits | LMTS |

| Line | LINE |

| Link | LINK |

| Lookout | LKOUT |

| Loop | LOOP |

| Mall | MALL |

| Manor | MANOR |

| Maze | MAZE |

| Meadow | MEADOW |

| Mews | MEWS |

| Montée | MONTÉE |

| Moor | MOOR |

| Mount | MOUNT |

| Mountain | MTN |

| Orchard | ORCH |

| Parade | PARADE |

| Parc | PARC |

| Park | PK |

| Parkway | PKY |

| Passage | PASS |

| Path | PATH |

| Pathway | PTWAY |

| Pines | PINES |

| Place (English) | PL |

| Place (French) | PLACE |

| Plateau | PLAT |

| Plaza | PLAZA |

| Point | PT |

| Pointe | POINTE |

| Port | PORT |

| Private | PVT |

| Promenade | PROM |

| Quai | QUAI |

| Run | RUN |

| Sentier | SENT |

| Square | SQ |

| Street | ST |

| Subdivision | SUBDIV |

| Terrace | TERR |

| Terrasse | TSSE |

| Thicket | THICK |

| Towers | TOWERS |

| Townline | TLINE |

| Trail | TRAIL |

| Turnabout | TRNABT |

| Vale | VALE |

| Via | VIA |

| View | VIEW |

| Village | VILLGE |

| Villas | VILLAS |

| Vista | VISTA |

| Voie | VOIE |

| Walk | WALK |

| Way | WAY |

| Wharf | WHARF |

| Wood | WOOD |

| Wynd | WYND |

### Appendix E – Lines that can be negative

Only the lines listed below may contain a negative value.

| Line | Description | Schedule or form |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 8519 | Gross profit (or loss) | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 9369 | Net income (loss) before adjustments | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 9899 | Net income (loss) before inventory adjustments | T2042 |

| 9944 | Net income (loss) after adjustments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9946 | Your net income (loss) | T776, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9946 | Net farming income (loss) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9969 | Net income (loss) before adjustments | T1163, T1273 |

| 10026 | Net exempt income | Form T90 |

| 10700 | Gain or loss from disposition of qualified small business corporation | Schedule 3 |

| 11000 | Gain or loss from disposition of qualified farm or fishing property | Schedule 3 |

| 12200 | Net partnership income: limited or non-active partners only | Page 3 of the return |

| 12400 | Gain or loss from disposition of mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions of a qualified farm or fishing property | Schedule 3 |

| 12600 | Net rental income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 12700 | Taxable capital gains (or net capital loss) **Note:** Line 12700 can be negative for deceased taxpayers only. | Page 3 of the return |

| 13200 | Gain or loss from disposition of publicly traded shares, mutual fund units, deferral of eligible small business corporation shares, and other shares | Schedule 3 |

| 13500 | Net business income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 13700 | Net professional income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 13800 | Gain or loss from disposition of real estate, depreciable property, and other properties | Schedule 3 |

| 13900 | Net commission income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 14100 | Net farming income (loss) | Page 23 of the tax return |

| 14300 | Net fishing income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 15000 | Total income | Page 3 of the return |

| 15300 | Gain or loss from disposition of bonds, debentures, promissory notes, and other similar properties | Schedule 3 |

| 15301 | Gain or loss from disposition of crypto-assets | Schedule 3 |

| 15500 | Gain or loss from disposition of other mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | Schedule 3 |

| 17400 | Capital gains or losses from T5, T5013, and T4PS information slips | Schedule 3 |

| 17600 | Capital gains or losses from T3 information slips | Schedule 3 |

| 26000 | Taxable income | Page 5 of the return |

| 38109 | Eligible spouse’s total net exempt income earned on a reserve and the tax-exempt portion of any allowance received as an emergency volunteer | Schedule 6 |

| 53550 | Amount of self-employment net earnings reported on self-employed lines in relation to T4 self-employment on which EI premiums through employment were deducted | See Appendix F |

| 55070 | RRSP earned income calculation | See Appendix F |

| 55300 | Earned income adjustment amount | See Appendix F |

| 58810 | Tax-exempt self-employment earnings and other tax-exempt earned income | RC383 |

| 66905 | Amount of the most recent reserves claimed on line 66850 | T2017 |

| 67060 | Total reserve | T2017 |

### Appendix F – Summary of supporting lines

The following is a list of the supporting lines used in EFILE that are not shown on the tax returns, schedules or forms. Where a paper return is required to be filed, these lines should not be printed on that return.

| Line | Description | Principle line |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 8001 | Indicator for $0 "basic credit for self" claimed by the spouse or common-law partner | 62480 (NT479) |

| 9900 | Additional business income | T1139 |

| 9901 | Last year's additional business income | T1139 |

| 9902 | Number of eligible children age 6 or younger for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 9903 | Child care expenses paid for eligible age 6 or younger for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 9904 | Number of eligible children between age 7 and age 16, and eligible children age 17 or older with a mental or physical impairment for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 9906 | Election indicator |  |

| 9907 | Annuity income | 11500 |

| 9908 | RRSP annuity income | 12900 |

| 9909 | Bank interest | 12100 |

| 9910 | Bond interest | 12100 |

| 9911 | Foreign non-business income on T3 slips | 12100 |

| 9912 | Interest from mortgages | 12100 |

| 9913 | Interest expense | 22100 |

| 9914 | Indicator for no provincial assistance received | 61140 (MB479) |

| 9915 | Indicator that the taxpayer has no income |  |

| 9916 | Premiums paid to a wage-loss replacement plan | 10400 |

| 9917 | Indicator that no old age security pension was received | 11300 |

| 9918 | Indicator that the spouse's or common-law partner's net income is zero or negative |  |

| 9919 | Joint accounts | 12100 |

| 9921 | Number of eligible children born in the current tax year or earlier for whom the disability amount can be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 9922 | Indicator for no pension adjustment | 20600 |

| 9971 | Child care expenses paid for eligible children between age 7 and age 16, and eligible children age 17 or older with a mental or physical impairment for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 9972 | Child care expenses paid for eligible children born in the current tax year or earlier for whom the disability amount can be claimed | 21400 (T778) |

| 48800 | Refund transfer | 48400 |

| 50260 | EI and PPIP premiums (non-Quebec return) | 31200 |

| 50270 | Total PPIP premiums | 31200 |

| 50280 | Total EI premiums | 31200 |

| 50290 | PPIP indicator | 31210 |

| 50310 | CPP and QPP contributions | 30800 |

| 50320 | QPP contributions on self-employment and other earnings | 22200, 31000 |

| 51051 | Spouse’s or common-law partner’s negative net income |  |

| 51170 | Number of full weeks in attendance at a designated educational institution or secondary school | 21500 |

| 52080 | Subsection 104(13.4) election amount |  |

| 52300 | Spouse's or common-law partner's capital gains from mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | 45200, 45300, 60350, 61580, 61880, 61970, 63390 |

| 52630 | Spouse's or common-law partner's net income while the taxpayer is living in Canada |  |

| 52670 | Spouse's or common-law partner's net income while the taxpayer is living outside of Canada |  |

| 52730 | Net foreign non-business income from the first foreign country | 43300 (T2209) |

| 52740 | Net foreign non-business income from the second foreign country | 43300 (T2209) |

| 52750 | Net foreign non-business income from the third foreign country | 43300 (T2209) |

| 52760 | Business income tax paid to the first foreign country | 43400 (T2209) |

| 52770 | Non-business income tax paid to first foreign country | 43100 (T2209) |

| 52780 | Non-business income tax paid to second foreign country | 43100 (T2209) |

| 52790 | Non-business income tax paid to third foreign country | 43100 (T2209) |

| 52800 | Net business income from the first foreign country | 43900 (T2209) |

| 52810 | Net business income from the second foreign country | 43900 (T2209) |

| 52820 | Net business income from the third foreign country | 43900 (T2209) |

| 52830 | Business income tax paid to the second foreign country | 43400 (T2209) |

| 52840 | Business income tax paid to the third foreign country | 43400 (T2209) |

| 52850 | Vow of perpetual poverty | 25600 |

| 52920 | Canadian sourced non-resident income, excluding the income subject to Part XIII tax |  |

| 52930 | Canadian sourced non-resident income subject to Part XIII tax plus foreign sourced non-resident income |  |

| 53080 | BC logging tax paid |  |

| 53210 | QC logging tax paid |  |

| 53300 | Indicator for filing due date for tax shelter, or inactive or active business | 12200 |

| 53350 | BC logging income | 53080 |

| 53370 | CCA on certified film property | 23200 |

| 53440 | Ineligible pension income | 11500, 11600, 12900, 25600, 31400 |

| 53450 | Income with tax withheld supported by information slips | 10400, 11900, 13000, 13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, 14300, 43700 |

| 53470 | T4 earning reduction | 10100 |

| 53490 | Quebec tax deducted (from slips in the taxpayer's name) | 43700 |

| 53500 | Income on which Quebec tax was withheld (from slips in the taxpayer's name) | 43700 |

| 53510 | Amount of OASP repaid | 23200 |

| 53530 | Limited partnership loss carryforward from 1986 and 1987 | 25100 |

| 53540 | Limited partnership loss available for carryforward | 12200, 12600 |

| 53550 | Amount of self-employment net earnings reported on self-employed lines in relation to T4 self-employment on which EI premiums through employment were deducted | 31217 |

| 53590 | Shareholder's loan repayment | 23200 |

| 53650 | Business income allocated to member of a communal organization | 13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, 14300 |

| 53670 | QC logging income | 53210 |

| 53680 | Spouse's or common-law partner's total split income |  |

| 53755 | CWB income from other returns | 10105 |

| 54493 | Shareholder earnings | 31217 |

| 54494 | Tax-exempt self-employment income earned by a status Indian | 31217 |

| 54610 | Taxable income from the post-bankruptcy period |  |

| 54780 | EI insurable earnings | 31200, 31217, 45000, 50280 |

| 54790 | EI and other benefits repaid | 23200 |

| 54920 | Farm/fish loss | 25200 |

| 54950 | Total section 31 farm loss | 14100 |

| 54960 | Restricted farm loss | 25200 |

| 55070 | RRSP earned income calculation | 13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, 14300 |

| 55080 | Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) participant repayment amount | 12900 |

| 55110 | Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP) participant repayment amount | 12900 |

| 55270 | Spousal indicator | 60900 (MB479) |

| 55300 | Earned income adjustment amount | 21400 |

| 55320 | Net self-employment income (loss) adjustment amount | 13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, 14300, 45200, 45300 |

| 55360 | RDSP repayment by taxpayer | 23200, 23500, 45200, 45300 |

| 55370 | RDSP income of spouse or common-law partner | 23500, 45200, 45300 |

| 55380 | RDSP repayment by spouse or common-law partner | 23500, 45200, 45300 |

| 55400 | Number of months of retirement | 11400 |

| 55520 | QPP overpayment for Quebec emigrant returns only | 44800 |

| 55530 | Total CPP overpayment allowed on line 44800 on previously assessed returns |  |

| 55550 | Number of months of disability | 11400 |

| 55630 | CPP deductions allowed on previously assessed returns |  |

| 55640 | Total CPP withheld per T4 on all previously assessed returns |  |

| 55660 | CPP/QPP retirement benefits | 11400 |

| 56121 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in ON plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to ON | 47556, 67062, 67063, 67067, 67071 |

| 56122 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in MB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to MB | 47556, 67062, 67064, 67068, 67072 |

| 56123 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in SK plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to SK | 47556, 67062, 67065, 67069, 67073 |

| 56124 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in AB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to AB | 47556, 67062, 67066, 67070, 67074 |

| 56125 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NS plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NS | 47556, 67062, 67091, 67095, 67099 |

| 56126 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in PE plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to PE | 47556, 67062, 67092, 67096, 67100 |

| 56127 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NL plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NL | 47556, 67062, 67093, 67097, 67101 |

| 56128 | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NB | 47556, 67062, 67094, 67098, 67102 |

| 56130 | Farm expenses on other elective returns | 47556, 67061 |

| 57460 | QPP deductions allowed on all previously assessed returns |  |

| 57470 | QPP withheld per T4 on all previously assessed returns |  |

| 57480 | QPP overpayment allowed on line 44800 on all previous assessed returns |  |

| 57730 | Marital status indicator – Separation less than 90 days | 11600, 21000, 32600, 58640 |

| 68140 | Capital gains from T3 slips | 17600 |

| 68200 | Special tax for Quebec LSVCC | T5006 |

| 68519 | QRLSP – Total principal (current and prior years) | 10100, 10400, 12799/12800, 13000 |

### Appendix G – All valid line numbers

#### Appendix G1 – Line numbers used on EFILE records

The following is a list of valid line numbers that may be transmitted on EFILE records. As identified below, the entry on a line must be numerical (N), in dollars only ($), or in dollars and cents ($/¢).

| Line | $/¢/N | Description | Returns, schedules and forms |

| --- | --- | --- | --- |

| 8001 | N | Indicator for $0 "basic credit for self" claimed by the spouse or common-law partner | See Appendix F |

| 9900 | $ | Additional business income | See Appendix F |

| 9901 | $ | Last year's additional business income | See Appendix F |

| 9902 | N | Number of eligible children age 6 or younger for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 9903 | $ | Child care expenses paid for eligible children age 6 or younger for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 9904 | N | Number of eligible children between age 7 and age 16, and eligible children age 17 or older with a mental or physical impairment for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 9906 | N | Election indicator | See Appendix F |

| 9907 | $ | Annuity income | See Appendix F |

| 9908 | $ | RRSP annuity income | See Appendix F |

| 9909 | $ | Bank interest | See Appendix F |

| 9910 | $ | Bond interest | See Appendix F |

| 9911 | $ | Foreign non-business income on T3 slips | See Appendix F |

| 9912 | $ | Interest from mortgages | See Appendix F |

| 9913 | $ | Interest expense | See Appendix F |

| 9914 | N | Indicator for no provincial assistance received | See Appendix F |

| 9915 | N | Indicator that the taxpayer has no income | See Appendix F |

| 9916 | $ | Premiums paid to a wage-loss replacement plan | See Appendix F |

| 9917 | N | Indicator that no old age security pension was received | See Appendix F |

| 9918 | N | Indicator that the spouse's or common-law partner's net income is zero or negative | See Appendix F |

| 9919 | $ | Joint accounts | See Appendix F |

| 9921 | N | Number of eligible children born in the current tax year or earlier for whom the disability amount can be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 9922 | N | Indicator for no pension adjustment | See Appendix F |

| 9971 | $ | Child care expenses paid for eligible children between age 7 and age 16, and eligible children age 17 or older with a mental or physical impairment for whom the disability amount cannot be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 9972 | $ | Child care expenses paid for eligible children born in the current tax year or earlier for whom the disability amount can be claimed | See Appendix F |

| 10000 | $ | Total exempt working income | Form T90 |

| 10019 | $ | Exempt EI maternity and paternal benefits and PPIP benefits | Form T90 |

| 10026 | $ | Net exempt income | Form T90 |

| 10100 | $ | Employment income from T4 slips | Page 3 of the return |

| 10105 | $ | Tax-exempt income for emergency services volunteers | Page 3 of the return |

| 10120 | $ | Commissions included on line 10100 | Page 3 of the return |

| 10130 | $ | Wage-loss replacement contributions | Page 3 of the return |

| 10400 | $ | Other employment income | Page 3 of the return |

| 10699 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of qualified small business corporation shares | Schedule 3 |

| 10700 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of qualified small business corporation shares | Schedule 3 |

| 10999 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of qualified farm or fishing property | Schedule 3 |

| 11000 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of qualified farm or fishing property | Schedule 3 |

| 11300 | $ | Old age security (OAS) pension | Page 3 of the return |

| 11400 | $ | CPP or QPP benefits | Page 3 of the return |

| 11410 | $ | Disability benefits included on line 11400 | Page 3 of the return |

| 11500 | $ | Other pensions and superannuation | Page 3 of the return |

| 11600 | $ | Elected split-pension amount | Page 3 of the return |

| 11700 | $ | Universal child care benefit (UCCB) | Page 3 of the return |

| 11701 | $ | UCCB amount designated to a dependant | Page 3 of the return |

| 11900 | $ | Employment insurance and other benefits | Page 3 of the return |

| 11905 | $ | EI maternity and paternal benefits and PPIP benefits | Page 3 of the return |

| 12000 | $ | Taxable amount of dividends (eligible and other than eligible) from taxable Canadian corporations | Page 3 of the return |

| 12010 | $ | Taxable amount of dividends other than eligible dividends, included on line 12000, from taxable Canadian corporations | Page 3 of the return |

| 12100 | $ | Interest and other investment income | Page 3 of the return |

| 12200 | $ | Net partnership income: limited or non-active partners only | Page 3 of the return |

| 12399 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | Schedule 3 |

| 12400 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | Schedule 3 |

| 12500 | $ | Registered disability savings plan (RDSP) income | Page 3 of the return |

| 12599 | $ | Gross rental income | Page 3 of the return |

| 12600 | $ | Net rental income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 12700 | $ | Taxable capital gains (or net capital loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 12799 | $ | Total support payments received | Page 3 of the return |

| 12800 | $ | Taxable amount of support payments received | Page 3 of the return |

| 12900 | $ | Registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) income | Page 3 of the return |

| 12905 | $ | First home savings account (FHSA) income | Page 3 of the return |

| 12906 | $ | FHSA income – other | Page 3 of the return |

| 13000 | $ | Other income | Page 3 of the return |

| 13010 | $ | Taxable scholarship, fellowships, bursaries, and artists' project grants | Page 3 of the return |

| 13199 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of publicly traded shares, mutual fund units, deferral of eligible small business corporation shares, and other shares | Schedule 3 |

| 13200 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of publicly traded shares, mutual fund units, deferral of eligible small business corporation shares, and other shares | Schedule 3 |

| 13499 | $ | Gross business income | Page 3 of the return |

| 13500 | $ | Net business income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 13599 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of real estate, depreciable property, and other properties | Schedule 3 |

| 13699 | $ | Gross professional income | Page 3 of the return |

| 13700 | $ | Net professional income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 13800 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of real estate, depreciable property, and other properties | Schedule 3 |

| 13899 | $ | Gross commission income | Page 3 of the return |

| 13900 | $ | Net commission income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 14099 | $ | Gross farming income | Page 3 of the return |

| 14100 | $ | Net farming income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 14299 | $ | Gross fishing income | Page 3 of the return |

| 14300 | $ | Net fishing income (loss) | Page 3 of the return |

| 14400 | $ | Workers' compensation benefits | Page 3 of the return |

| 14500 | $ | Social assistance payments | Page 3 of the return |

| 14600 | $ | Net federal supplements paid | Page 3 of the return |

| 15000 | $ | Total income | Page 3 of the return |

| 15199 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of bonds, debentures, promissory notes and other similar properties | Schedule 3 |

| 15200 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of crypto assets | Schedule 3 |

| 15300 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of bonds, debentures, promissory notes and other similar properties | Schedule 3 |

| 15301 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of crypto assets | Schedule 3 |

| 15499 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of other mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | Schedule 3 |

| 15500 | $ | Gain or loss from disposition of other mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | Schedule 3 |

| 15800 | $ | Gain from disposition of personal-use property | Schedule 3 |

| 15900 | $ | Net gain from disposition of listed personal property | Schedule 3 |

| 16100 | $ | Capital gains deferral from qualifying dispositions of eligible small business corporation shares | Schedule 3 |

| 16700 | $ | Net world income | 5013-SA Schedule A |

| 16900 | $ | Net world income after adjustments | 5013-SA Schedule A |

| 17211 | $ | Deduction available for qualifying cooperative conversion election | T2048 |

| 17212 | $ | Deduction available for qualifying business transfer election | T2048 |

| 17213 | $ | Taxable capital gains for qualifying business transfer or qualifying cooperative conversion | T2048 |

| 17215 | $ | Gains for claiming a capital gains deduction for qualifying business transfer or qualifying cooperative conversion | T2048 |

| 17216 | $ | QFFP & QSBCS gains for claiming a capital gains deduction for qualifying business transfer or qualifying cooperative conversion | T2048 |

| 17217 | $ | Allowable investment business loss reduction | T2048 |

| 17218 | $ | Net investment loss reduction | T2048 |

| 17400 | $ | Capital gains or losses from T5, T5013, and T4PS information slips | Schedule 3 |

| 17600 | $ | Capital gains or losses from T3 information slips | Schedule 3 |

| 17700 | N | Residency status indicator | T1248 Schedule D, 5013-R |

| 17800 | $ | Capital loss from a reduction in the business investment loss | Schedule 3 |

| 17900 | N | Principal residence designation | Schedule 3 |

| 17905 | N | Disposition of property owned for less than 365 consecutive days | Schedule 3 |

| 17906 | N | Disposition due to, or in anticipation of, life events | Schedule 3 |

| 19890 | $ | Capital gains at 100% | Schedule 3 |

| 20600 | $ | Pension adjustment | Page 4 of the return |

| 20700 | $ | Registered pension plan (RPP) deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 20800 | $ | RRSP deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 20805 | $ | FHSA deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 20810 | $ | Pooled registered pension plan (PRPP) employer contributions | Page 4 of the return |

| 21000 | $ | Deduction for elected split-pension amount | Page 4 of the return |

| 21200 | $ | Annual union, professional, or like dues | Page 4 of the return |

| 21300 | $ | Universal child care benefit repayment | Page 4 of the return |

| 21400 | $ | Child care expenses | Page 4 of the return |

| 21500 | $ | Disability supports deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 21699 | $ | Gross business investment loss | Page 4 of the return |

| 21700 | $ | Allowable business investment loss deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 21900 | $ | Moving expenses | Page 4 of the return |

| 21999 | $ | Total support payments made | Page 4 of the return |

| 22000 | $ | Allowable deduction for support payments made | Page 4 of the return |

| 22100 | $ | Carrying charges, interest expenses, and other expenses | Page 4 of the return |

| 22200 | $/¢ | Deduction for CPP or QPP contributions on self-employment income and other earnings | Page 4 of the return |

| 22215 | $/¢ | Deduction for CPP or QPP enhanced contributions on employment income | Page 4 of the return |

| 22300 | $/¢ | Deduction for PPIP premiums on self-employment income | Page 4 of the return for Quebec |

| 22400 | $ | Exploration and development expenses | Page 4 of the return for Quebec |

| 22900 | $ | Other employment expenses | Page 4 of the return |

| 23100 | $ | Clergy residence deduction | Page 4 of the return |

| 23200 | $ | Other deductions | Page 4 of the return |

| 23500 | $/¢ | Social benefits repayment | Page 4 of the return |

| 24400 | $ | Canadian Forces personnel and police deduction | Page 5 of the return |

| 24500 | $ | Total RRSP, SPP, and PRPP contributions from March 1, 2024 to March 3, 2025 | Schedule 7 |

| 24600 | $ | Contributions designated as a repayment under the Home Buyers' Plan | Schedule 7 |

| 24620 | $ | Contributions designated as a repayment under the Lifelong Learning Plan | Schedule 7 |

| 24640 | $ | Transfers to an RRSP/PRPP/SPP | Schedule 7 |

| 24700 | $ | Curent year withdrawals for the HBP on T4RSP slips | Schedule 7 |

| 24900 | $ | Security options deductions | Page 5 of the return |

| 25000 | $ | Other payments deduction | Page 5 of the return |

| 25100 | $ | Limited partnership losses of other years | Page 5 of the return |

| 25200 | $ | Non-capital losses of other years | Page 5 of the return |

| 25300 | $ | Net capital losses of other years | Page 5 of the return |

| 25395 | $ | Capital gains deduction for qualifying business transfer or qualifying cooperative conversion | Page 5 of the return |

| 25400 | $ | Capital gains deduction | Page 5 of the return |

| 25500 | $ | Northern residents deductions | Page 5 of the return |

| 25600 | $ | Additional deductions | Page 5 of the return |

| 25900 | N | Address of home purchased under the HBP is the same as on page 1 of return | Schedule 7 |

| 26000 | $ | Taxable income | Page 5 of the return |

| 26300 | $ | Curent year withdrawals for the LLP on T4RSP slips | Schedule 7 |

| 26400 | N | Designation of the spouse or common-law partner as the student for whom the funds were withdrawn under the LLP | Schedule 7 |

| 26600 | N | Foreign property held in the current tax year with a total cost of more than CAN$100,000 | Page 2 of the return |

| 26700 | $ | Curent year contributions to an amateur athlete trust | Schedule 7 |

| 30000 | $ | Basic personal amount | Page 5 of the return |

| 30100 | $ | Age amount | Page 5 of the return |

| 30300 | $ | Spouse or common-law partner amount | Page 5 of the return |

| 30400 | $ | Amount for an eligible dependant | Page 5 of the return |

| 30425 | $ | Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or eligible dependant age 18 or older | Page 5 of the return |

| 30450 | $ | Canada caregiver amount for other infirm dependants age 18 or older | Page 5 of the return |

| 30499 | N | Number of children for whom you are claiming the Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age | Page 5 of the return |

| 30500 | $ | Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age | Page 5 of the return |

| 30800 | $/¢ | Base CPP or QPP contributions through employment income | Page 6 of the return |

| 31000 | $/¢ | Base CPP or QPP contributions on self-employment income and other earnings | Page 6 of the return |

| 31200 | $/¢ | Employment insurance premiums through employment | Page 6 of the return |

| 31205 | $/¢ | Provincial parental insurance plan (PPIP) premiums paid | Page 6 of the return for QC |

| 31210 | $/¢ | PPIP premiums payable on employment income | Page 6 of the return for QC |

| 31215 | $/¢ | PPIP premiums payable on self-employment income | Page 6 of the return for QC |

| 31217 | $/¢ | Employment insurance premiums on self-employment and other eligible earnings | Page 6 of the return |

| 31220 | $ | Volunteer firefighters' amount | Page 6 of the return |

| 31240 | $ | Search and rescue volunteers' amount | Page 6 of the return |

| 31260 | $ | Canada employment amount | Page 6 of the return |

| 31270 | $ | Home buyers' amount | Page 6 of the return |

| 31285 | $ | Home accessibility expenses | Page 6 of the return |

| 31300 | $ | Adoption expenses | Page 6 of the return |

| 31400 | $ | Pension income amount | Page 6 of the return |

| 31600 | $ | Disability amount for self | Page 6 of the return |

| 31800 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant | Page 6 of the return |

| 31900 | $ | Interest paid on your student loans | Page 6 of the return |

| 32000 | $ | Eligible tuition fees paid to Canadian educational institutions for the current tax year | Schedule 11 |

| 32001 | $ | Eligible tuition fees paid to foreign educational institutions for the current tax year | Schedule 11 |

| 32005 | N | Not enrolled full-time due to effects of impairment | Schedule 11 |

| 32010 | N | Number of months enrolled as a part-time student | Schedule 11 |

| 32020 | N | Number of months enrolled as a full-time student | Schedule 11 |

| 32300 | $ | Your tuition, education, and textbook amounts | Page 6 of the return |

| 32400 | $ | Tuition amount transferred from a child or grandchild | Page 6 of the return |

| 32600 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner | Page 6 of the return |

| 32700 | $ | Federal tuition amount transferred | Schedule 11 |

| 32900 | $ | Donations made to government bodies | Schedule 9 |

| 33099 | $ | Medical expenses for self, spouse or common-law partner, and dependent children under 18 years of age | Page 6 of the return |

| 33199 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants | Page 6 of the return |

| 33200 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses | Page 6 of the return |

| 33300 | $ | Donations made to registered universities outside Canada | Schedule 9 |

| 33400 | $ | Donations made to the United Nations and its agencies, as well as registered foreign charities that the Government of Canada has made a gift to | Schedule 9 |

| 33500 | $ | Add lines 30000 to 32600, and line 33200 | Page 6 of the return |

| 33700 | $ | Gifts of capital property that is depreciable property | Schedule 9 |

| 33800 | $ | Non-refundable tax credits before donations and gifts | Page 6 of the return |

| 33900 | $ | Gifts of capital property | Schedule 9 |

| 34000 | $ | Allowable charitable donations | Schedule 9 |

| 34200 | $ | Eligible amount of ecological gifts and cultural gifts | Schedule 9 |

| 34210 | $ | Total ecological gifts made after February 10, 2014, and before 2016 | Schedule 9 |

| 34900 | $ | Donations and gifts | Page 6 of the return |

| 34990 | $ | Top-up tax credit | Page 6 of the return |

| 35000 | $ | Total federal non-refundable tax credits | Page 6 of the return |

| 35200 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's age amount | Schedule 2 |

| 35300 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age | Schedule 2 |

| 35500 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's pension income amount | Schedule 2 |

| 35700 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's disability amount | Schedule 2 |

| 36000 | $ | Federal tuition amount designated by your spouse or common-law partner | Schedule 2 |

| 36100 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's adjusted taxable income | Schedule 2 |

| 38100 | N | Do you have an eligible dependant? | Schedule 6 |

| 38101 | N | Do you have an eligible spouse? | Schedule 6 |

| 38102 | N | Are you claiming the basic CWB? | Schedule 6 |

| 38103 | N | Are you eligible for the disability tax credit? | Schedule 6 |

| 38104 | N | Is your eligible spouse eligible for the DTC for themselves? | Schedule 6 |

| 38105 | N | Are you choosing to include tax-exempt income to calculate the CWB? | Schedule 6 |

| 38106 | $ | Eligible spouse's taxable scholarship, fellowships, bursaries, and artists' project grants | Schedule 6 |

| 38107 | $ | Eligible spouse’s tax-exempt working income earned on a reserve and the tax-exempt portion of any allowance received as an emergency volunteer | Schedule 6 |

| 38108 | $ | Eligible spouse's working income | Schedule 6 |

| 38109 | $ | Eligible spouse’s total net exempt income earned on a reserve and the tax-exempt portion of any allowance received as an emergency volunteer | Schedule 6 |

| 38110 | $ | Eligible spouse's adjusted net income | Schedule 6 |

| 38120 | $/¢ | Total basic advanced Canada workers benefit paid to the individual | Schedule 6 |

| 38121 | $/¢ | Total basic advanced Canada workers benefit paid to individual’s spouse or common-law partner | Schedule 6 |

| 38122 | $/¢ | Total advanced Canada workers benefit disability supplement paid to the individual | Schedule 6 |

| 40424 | $/¢ | Federal tax on split income | Page 7 of the return |

| 40425 | $/¢ | Federal dividend tax credit | Page 7 of the return |

| 40427 | $/¢ | Minimum tax carry-over | Page 7 of the return |

| 40600 | $/¢ | Federal tax | Page 7 of the return |

| 40900 | $ | Total federal political contributions | Page 7 of the return |

| 41000 | $/¢ | Federal political contribution tax credit | Page 7 of the return |

| 41200 | $/¢ | Investment tax credit | Page 7 of the return |

| 41300 | $ | Labour-sponsored funds tax credit – Net cost | Page 7 of the return |

| 41400 | $/¢ | Labour-sponsored funds tax credit – Allowable credit | Page 7 of the return |

| 41500 | $/¢ | Advanced Canada workers benefit | Page 7 of the return |

| 41700 | $/¢ | Minimum tax | Page 7 of the return |

| 41800 | $/¢ | Special taxes | Page 7 of the return |

| 42100 | $/¢ | CPP contributions payable on self-employment income and other earnings | Page 7 of the return |

| 42800 | $/¢ | Provincial or territorial tax | Page 7 of the return |

| 43100 | $/¢ | Non-business income tax paid to a foreign country | T2209 |

| 43200 | $/¢ | Yukon First Nations tax | Page 7 of the return for Yukon |

| 43300 | $ | Net foreign non-business income | T2209 |

| 43400 | $/¢ | Business income tax paid to a foreign country | T2209 |

| 43500 | $/¢ | Total payable | Page 7 of the return |

| 43700 | $/¢ | Total income tax deducted | Page 8 of the return |

| 43800 | $/¢ | Tax transfer for residents of Quebec | Page 8 of the return for Quebec |

| 43900 | $ | Net foreign business income | T2209 |

| 44000 | $/¢ | Refundable Quebec abatement | Page 8 of the return |

| 44100 | $/¢ | Federal refundable First Nations abatement | Page 8 of the return for Yukon |

| 44800 | $/¢ | CPP or QPP overpayment | Page 8 of the return except for Quebec |

| 45000 | $/¢ | Employment insurance overpayment | Page 8 of the return |

| 45200 | $/¢ | Refundable medical expense supplement | Page 8 of the return |

| 45300 | $/¢ | Canada workers benefit (CWB) | Page 8 of the return |

| 45350 | $/¢ | Canada training credit (CTC) | Page 8 of the return |

| 45354 | $ | Qualified expenditures | Schedule 12 |

| 45355 | $/¢ | Multigenerational home renovation tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 45400 | $/¢ | Refund of investment tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 45600 | $/¢ | Part XII.2 trust tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 45700 | $/¢ | Employee and partner GST/HST rebate | Page 8 of the return |

| 46500 | $/¢ | Donation to the Ontario opportunities fund | Page 8 of the return for Ontario |

| 46600 | $/¢ | Net refund | Page 8 of the return for Ontario |

| 46800 | $ | Expenses for eligible educator school supply tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 46900 | $/¢ | Eligible educator school supply tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 47555 | $/¢ | Canadian journalism labour tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 47556 | $/¢ | Return of fuel charge proceeds to farmers tax credit | Page 8 of the return |

| 47600 | $/¢ | Tax paid by instalments | Page 8 of the return |

| 47900 | $/¢ | Provincial or territorial credits | Page 8 of the return |

| 48400 | $/¢ | Refund | Page 8 of the return |

| 48500 | $/¢ | Balance owing | Page 8 of the return |

| 48600 | $/¢ | Amount enclosed | Page 8 of the return |

| 48700 | N | Volunteer program | Page 8 of the return |

| 48800 | N | Refund transfer | Page 8 of the return |

| 49000 | N | Tax preparer code | Page 8 of the return |

| 50260 | $/¢ | EI and PPIP premiums (non-Quebec return) | See Appendix F |

| 50270 | $/¢ | Total PPIP premiums | See Appendix F |

| 50280 | $/¢ | Total EI premiums | See Appendix F |

| 50290 | N | PPIP indicator | See Appendix F |

| 50310 | $/¢ | CPP and QPP contributions | See Appendix F |

| 50320 | $/¢ | QPP contributions on self-employment and other earnings | See Appendix F |

| 50329 | $ | Total QPP pensionable earnings | Schedule 8 (QPP), RC381 |

| 50330 | $/¢ | Total actual base and first additional QPP contributions from box 17 of T4 slips | Schedule 8 (QPP), RC381 |

| 50331 | $/¢ | Total actual second additional QPP contributions from box 17A of T4 slips | Schedule 8 (QPP), RC381 |

| 50339 | $ | Total CPP pensionable earnings | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 50340 | $/¢ | Total actual base and first additional CPP contributions from box 16 of T4 slips | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 50341 | $/¢ | Total actual second additional CPP contributions from box 16A of T4 slips | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 50371 | $ | Pensionable net self-employment earnings | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 Part 4 |

| 50371 | $ | Net business income | Schedule 8 (QPP), RC381 Part 5 |

| 50372 | N | Effective date to elect to stop contributing to CPP on self employment earnings | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 50373 | $ | Employment earnings not shown on a T4 slip that you are electing to pay additional CPP contributions on | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 Part 4 |

| 50373 | $ | Income you want to make optional contributions on | Schedule 8 (QPP), RC381 Part 5 |

| 50374 | N | Effective date to revoke an election made in a previous year to stop contributing to CPP on self-employment earnings and resume contributing to the CPP | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 50399 | $ | Employment earnings shown on a T4 slip that you are electing to pay additional CPP contributions on | Schedule 8 (CPP), RC381 |

| 51051 | $ | Spouse’s or common-law partner’s negative net income | - |

| 51090 | $ | Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner | Schedule 5 |

| 51100 | $ | Canada caregiver amount for a dependant (other than an infirm child under 18 year of age) | Schedule 5 |

| 51106 | $ | Dependant's net income from line 23600 of their return | Schedule 5 |

| 51120 | N | Number of dependants | Schedule 5 |

| 51170 | N | Number of full weeks in attendance at a designated educational institution or secondary school | See Appendix F |

| 51180 | $ | Earnings for services performed in Canada that the foreign social security contributions were made on | RC269 |

| 51190 | $ | Amount contributed to a foreign social security arrangement | RC269 |

| 51200 | $ | Allowable non-refundable tax credit for contributions to a foreign social security arrangement | RC269 |

| 51201 | $ | Foreign social security arrangement – contributions deduction amount | RC269 |

| 51204 | $ | Contributions to a U.S. retirement plan | RC267 |

| 51205 | $ | Contributions to a U.S. retirement plan | RC268 |

| 51210 | $ | Contributions to a foreign employer-sponsored pension plan | RC269 |

| 51220 | $ | Resident compensation from employment services | RC267, RC269 |

| 51230 | $ | Pension adjustment from a U.S. retirement plan | RC267 |

| 51230 | $ | Prescribed amount from a U.S. retirement plan | RC268 |

| 51230 | $ | Pension adjustment from a foreign employer-sponsored pension plan | RC269 |

| 52080 | $ | Subsection 104(13.4) election amount | See Appendix F |

| 52100 | $ | Income allocated to NL | T2203 |

| 52110 | $ | Income allocated to PE | T2203 |

| 52120 | $ | Income allocated to NS | T2203 |

| 52130 | $ | Income allocated to NB | T2203 |

| 52140 | $ | Income allocated to QC | T2203 |

| 52150 | $ | Income allocated to ON | T2203 |

| 52160 | $ | Income allocated to MB | T2203 |

| 52170 | $ | Income allocated to SK | T2203 |

| 52180 | $ | Income allocated to AB | T2203 |

| 52190 | $ | Income allocated to BC | T2203 |

| 52200 | $ | Income allocated to NT | T2203 |

| 52210 | $ | Income allocated to YT | T2203 |

| 52220 | $ | Income allocated to Other (outside Canada) | T2203 |

| 52230 | $ | Income allocated to NU | T2203 |

| 52300 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's capital gains from mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions | See Appendix F |

| 52630 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's net income while the taxpayer is living in Canada | See Appendix F |

| 52670 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's net income while the taxpayer is living outside of Canada | See Appendix F |

| 52730 | $ | Net foreign non-business income from the first foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52740 | $ | Net foreign non-business income from the second foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52750 | $ | Net foreign non-business income from the third foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52760 | $/¢ | Business income tax paid to the first foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52770 | $/¢ | Non-business income tax paid to first foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52780 | $/¢ | Non-business income tax paid to second foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52790 | $/¢ | Non-business income tax paid to third foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52800 | $ | Net business income from the first foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52810 | $ | Net business income from the second foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52820 | $ | Net business income from the third foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52830 | $/¢ | Business income tax paid to the second foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52840 | $/¢ | Business income tax paid to the third foreign country | See Appendix F |

| 52850 | $ | Vow of perpetual poverty | See Appendix F |

| 52920 | $ | Canadian sourced non-resident income, excluding the income subject to Part XIII tax | See Appendix F |

| 52930 | $ | Canadian sourced non-resident income subject to Part XIII tax plus foreign sourced non-resident income | See Appendix F |

| 53080 | $/¢ | BC logging tax paid | See Appendix F |

| 53210 | $/¢ | QC logging tax paid | See Appendix F |

| 53300 | N | Indicator for filing due date for tax shelter, or inactive or active business | See Appendix F |

| 53350 | $ | BC logging income | See Appendix F |

| 53370 | $ | CCA on certified film property | See Appendix F |

| 53440 | $ | Ineligible pension income | See Appendix F |

| 53450 | $ | Income with tax withheld supported by information slips | See Appendix F |

| 53470 | $ | T4 earning reduction | See Appendix F |

| 53490 | $/¢ | Quebec tax deducted (from slips in the taxpayer's name) | See Appendix F |

| 53500 | $ | Income on which Quebec tax was withheld (from slips in the taxpayer's name) | See Appendix F |

| 53510 | $ | Amount of OASP repaid | See Appendix F |

| 53530 | $ | Limited partnership loss carryforward from 1986 and 1987 | See Appendix F |

| 53540 | $ | Limited partnership loss available for carryforward | See Appendix F |

| 53550 | $ | Amount of self-employment net earnings reported on self-employed lines in relation to T4 self-employment on which EI premiums through employment were deducted | See Appendix F |

| 53590 | $ | Shareholder's loan repayment | See Appendix F |

| 53650 | $ | Business income allocated to member of a communal organization | See Appendix F |

| 53670 | $ | QC logging income | See Appendix F |

| 53680 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's total split income | See Appendix F |

| 53755 | $ | CWB income from other returns | See Appendix F |

| 54375 | $ | Net business income (amount from line 27 of Schedule L of the Quebec provincial income tax return) | Schedule 10 |

| 54377 | $ | Employment income where the province or territory of employment is other than Quebec | Schedule 10 |

| 54388 | $ | PPIP insurable earnings | Schedule 10 |

| 54493 | $ | Shareholder earnings | Schedule 13 |

| 54494 | $ | Tax-exempt self-employment income earned by a status Indian | Schedule 13 |

| 54610 | $ | Taxable income from the post-bankruptcy period | See Appendix F |

| 54780 | $ | EI insurable earnings | Schedule 13 |

| 54790 | $ | EI and other benefits repaid | See Appendix F |

| 54920 | $ | Farm/fish loss | See Appendix F |

| 54950 | $ | Total section 31 farm loss | See Appendix F |

| 54960 | $ | Restricted farm loss | See Appendix F |

| 55070 | $ | RRSP earned income calculation | See Appendix F |

| 55080 | $ | Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) participant repayment amount | See Appendix F |

| 55110 | $ | Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP) participant repayment amount | See Appendix F |

| 55220 | N | Indicator for marital status change | Schedule 5 |

| 55270 | N | Spousal indicator | See Appendix F |

| 55290 | N | Marital status change indicator for the amount for an eligible dependant | Schedule 5 |

| 55295 | N | Dependent’s SIN | Schedule 5 |

| 55300 | $ | Earned income adjustment amount | See Appendix F |

| 55320 | $ | Net self-employment income (loss) adjustment amount | See Appendix F |

| 55360 | $ | RDSP repayment by taxpayer | See Appendix F |

| 55370 | $ | RDSP income of spouse or common-law partner | See Appendix F |

| 55380 | $ | RDSP repayment by spouse or common-law partner | See Appendix F |

| 55400 | N | Number of months of retirement | See Appendix F |

| 55530 | $/¢ | Total CPP overpayment allowed on line 44800 on previously assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 55550 | N | Number of months of disability | See Appendix F |

| 55630 | $/¢ | CPP deductions allowed on previously assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 55640 | $/¢ | Total CPP withheld per T4 on all previously assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 55660 | $ | CPP/QPP retirement benefits | See Appendix F |

| 56120 | $ | Dependent's net income | T2203 |

| 56121 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in ON plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to ON | See Appendix F |

| 56122 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in MB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to MB | See Appendix F |

| 56123 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in SK plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to SK | See Appendix F |

| 56124 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in AB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to AB | See Appendix F |

| 56125 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NS plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NS | See Appendix F |

| 56126 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in PE plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to PE | See Appendix F |

| 56127 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NL plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NL | See Appendix F |

| 56128 | $/¢ | Total tax credit calculated for farmers with one or more permanent establishments in NB plus farming business in more than one province or territory, with an allocation of eligible farming expenses to NB | See Appendix F |

| 56130 | $ | Farm expenses on other elective returns | See Appendix F |

| 56150 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – NL | T2203 |

| 56160 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – PE | T2203 |

| 56170 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – NS | T2203 |

| 56190 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – SK | T2203 |

| 56200 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – AB | T2203 |

| 56220 | $ | Caregiver amount – NL | T2203 |

| 56230 | $ | Caregiver amount – PE | T2203 |

| 56240 | $ | Caregiver amount – NS | T2203 |

| 56260 | $ | Caregiver amount – SK | T2203 |

| 56270 | $ | Caregiver amount – AB | T2203 |

| 56290 | $ | Disability amount for self – NL | T2203 |

| 56300 | $ | Disability amount for self – PE | T2203 |

| 56310 | $ | Disability amount for self – NS | T2203 |

| 56320 | $ | Disability amount for self – ON | T2203 |

| 56330 | $ | Disability amount for self – SK | T2203 |

| 56340 | $ | Disability amount for self – AB | T2203 |

| 56350 | $ | Disability amount for self – BC | T2203 |

| 56360 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – NL | T2203 |

| 56370 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – PE | T2203 |

| 56380 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – NS | T2203 |

| 56390 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – ON | T2203 |

| 56400 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – SK | T2203 |

| 56410 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – AB | T2203 |

| 56420 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – BC | T2203 |

| 56430 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – NL | T2203 |

| 56440 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – PE | T2203 |

| 56450 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – NS | T2203 |

| 56460 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – ON | T2203 |

| 56470 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – SK | T2203 |

| 56480 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – AB | T2203 |

| 56490 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – BC | T2203 |

| 56760 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – NT | T2203 |

| 56770 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – NU | T2203 |

| 56780 | $ | Caregiver amount – NT | T2203 |

| 56790 | $ | Caregiver amount – NU | T2203 |

| 56800 | $ | Disability amount for self – NT | T2203 |

| 56810 | $ | Disability amount for self – NU | T2203 |

| 56820 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – NT | T2203 |

| 56830 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – NU | T2203 |

| 56840 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – NT | T2203 |

| 56850 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – NU | T2203 |

| 56860 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – MB | T2203 |

| 56870 | $ | Caregiver amount – MB | T2203 |

| 56880 | $ | Disability amount for self – MB | T2203 |

| 56890 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – MB | T2203 |

| 56900 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – MB | T2203 |

| 56910 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – MB | T2203 |

| 56920 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – MB | T2203 |

| 56930 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – MB | T2203 |

| 56940 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – NB | T2203 |

| 56950 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – YT | T2203 |

| 57460 | $/¢ | QPP deductions allowed on all previously assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 57470 | $/¢ | QPP withheld per T4 on all previously assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 57480 | $/¢ | QPP overpayment allowed on line 44800 on all previous assessed returns | See Appendix F |

| 57730 | N | Marital status indicator – Separation less than 90 days | See Appendix F |

| 57740 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – NL | T2203 |

| 57750 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – PE | T2203 |

| 57760 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – NS | T2203 |

| 57800 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – BC | T2203 |

| 57810 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – NL | T2203 |

| 57820 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – PE | T2203 |

| 57830 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – NS | T2203 |

| 57840 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – ON | T2203 |

| 57850 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – SK | T2203 |

| 57860 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – AB | T2203 |

| 57870 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – BC | T2203 |

| 57880 | $ | Allowable medical expenses – ON | T2203 |

| 57890 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – NL | T2203 |

| 57900 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – PE | T2203 |

| 57910 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – NS | T2203 |

| 57920 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – ON | T2203 |

| 57930 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – SK | T2203 |

| 57940 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – AB | T2203 |

| 57950 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – BC | T2203 |

| 57960 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – NT | T2203 |

| 57970 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – NU | T2203 |

| 57980 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – NT | T2203 |

| 57990 | $ | Total non-refundable tax credits – NU | T2203 |

| 58000 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – NT | T2203 |

| 58010 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – NU | T2203 |

| 58040 | $ | Basic personal amount | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58080 | $ | Age amount | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58120 | $ | Spousal or common-law law partner amount | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58160 | $ | Amount for an eligible dependant | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58170 | $ | Caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or eligible dependant age 18 or older | YT428 |

| 58175 | $ | British Columbia caregiver amount | BC428, T2203 |

| 58180 | $ | Caregiver amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older | YT428, T2203 |

| 58185 | $ | Ontario caregiver amount | ON428, T2203 |

| 58189 | $ | Caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age | YT428, T2203 |

| 58200 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older | NL428, PE428, NS428, NB428, MB428, SK428, AB428, NT428, NU428 |

| 58209 | N | Number of children | SK428, T2203 |

| 58210 | $ | Amount for dependent children age 18 or younger | SK428, T2203 |

| 58220 | $ | Senior supplementary amount | SK428, T2203 |

| 58229 | N | Number of months being claimed for all qualifying children | PE428. NS428, T2203 |

| 58230 | $ | Amount for young children | PE428, NS428, NU428, T2203 |

| 58240 | $/¢ | CPP or QPP contributions | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58280 | $/¢ | CPP or QPP contributions on self-employment and other earnings | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58300 | $/¢ | Employment insurance premiums | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58305 | $/¢ | Employment insurance premiums on self-employment and other eligible earnings | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58310 | $ | Canada employment amount | YT428, T2203 |

| 58315 | $ | Volunteer firefighters' amount | NL428, NB428, MB428, SK428, BC428, T2203 |

| 58316 | $ | Search and rescue volunteers' amount | NL428, NB428, MB428, SK428, BC428, T2203 |

| 58317 | $ | Volunteer emergency medical first responders’ amount | SK428, T2203 |

| 58320 | $ | Child care amount | NL428, T2203 |

| 58325 | $ | Fitness amount | MB428, T2203 |

| 58326 | $ | Children's arts amount | MB428, YT428, T2203 |

| 58330 | $ | Adoption expenses | NL428, ON428, MB428, AB428, BC428, YT428, T2203 |

| 58340 | $ | Provincial Home Renovation Expenses | SK428, T2203 |

| 58357 | $ | First-time homebuyers’ amount | SK428, T2203 |

| 58360 | $ | Pension income amount | Form 428 for all provinces and territories, T2203 |

| 58365 | $ | Children’s wellness tax credit | PE428, T2203 |

| 58400 | $ | Caregiver amount | NL428, PE428, NS428, NB428, MB428, SK428, AB428, NT428, NU428 |

| 58440 | $ | Disability amount for self | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58480 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58500 | $ | Teacher school supply amount | PE428, T2203 |

| 58520 | $ | Interest paid on your student loans | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58560 | $ | Your tuition and education amounts | NL428, PE428, NS428, NB428, MB428, BC428, NT428 |

| 58560 | $ | Your unused tuition and education amounts | ON428, SK428, AB428 |

| 58560 | $ | Your tuition, education, and textbook amounts | YT428, NU428 |

| 58600 | $ | Tuition and education amounts transferred from a child or grandchild | NL428, PE428, NS428, MB428, NT428 |

| 58600 | $ | Tuition amounts transferred from a child or grandchild | NB428, BC428, YT428 |

| 58600 | $ | Tuition, education, and textbook amounts transferred from a child or grandchild | NU428 |

| 58640 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58689 | $ | Medical expenses for self, spouse or common-law partner, and your dependent children under 18 years of age | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58729 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58750 | $ | Tax-exempt employment earnings | RC383 |

| 58769 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58800 | $ | Add lines 58040 to 58640 (and line 61470 for MB) and line 58769 | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 58810 | $ | Tax-exempt self-employment earnings and other tax-exempt earned income | RC383 |

| 58820 | $ | Total eligible PRPP contributions from tax-exempt income | RC383 |

| 58830 | $ | PRPP contributions from tax-exempt income designated as a repayment under the HBP | RC383 |

| 58840 | $ | Provincial or territorial non-refundable tax credits before donations and gifts | Form 428 for all provinces and territories, except BC |

| 58840 | $ | Non-refundable tax credits before donations and gifts and the farmers' food donation tax credit | BC428 |

| 58969 | $ | Donations and gifts | Form 428 for all provinces and territories, T2203 |

| 58970 | $ | PRPP contributions from tax-exempt income designated as a repayment under the LLP | RC383 |

| 58980 | $ | BC farmers' food donation tax credit | BC428, T2203 |

| 59000 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's amount for young children less than 6 years of age | NU(S2) |

| 59010 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's amount for dependent children age 18 or younger | SK(S2) |

| 59020 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's age amount | Schedule 2 for all provinces and territories |

| 59030 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's senior supplementary amount | SK(S2) |

| 59040 | $ | Spouse’s or common-law partner’s caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age | YT(S2) |

| 59050 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's pension income amount | Schedule 2 for all provinces and territories |

| 59070 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's disability amount | Schedule 2 for all provinces and territories |

| 59090 | $ | Tuition and education amounts designated by your spouse or common-law partner | NL(S2), PE(S2), NS(S2), MB(S2), NT(S2) |

| 59090 | $ | Tuition amounts designated by your spouse or common-law partner | NB(S2), BC(S2), YT(S2) |

| 59090 | $ | Tuition, education, and textbook amounts designated by your spouse or common-law partner | NU(S2) |

| 59120 | $ | Spouse's or common-law partner's adjusted taxable income | Schedule 2 for all provinces and territories |

| 59140 | $ | Eligible tuition fees paid for the current tax year | NL(S11), PE(S11), NS(S11), NB(S11), MB(S11), BC(S11), NT(S11), YT(S11), NU(S11) |

| 59160 | $ | Part-time education amount | NL(S11), PE(S11), NS(S11), MB(S11), NT(S11) |

| 59160 | $ | Part-time education and textbook amounts | NU(S11) |

| 59180 | $ | Full-time education amount | NL(S11), PE(S11), NS(S11), MB(S11), NT(S11) |

| 59180 | $ | Full-time education and textbook amounts | NU(S11) |

| 59200 | $ | Provincial amount transferred | NL(S11), PE(S11), NS(S11) |

| 59200 | $ | Territorial amount transferred | YT(S11) |

| 59200 | $ | Provincial tuition amount transferred | NB(S11), MB(S11), BC(S11), T2203 |

| 59200 | $ | Territorial tuition amount transferred | NT(S11), NU(S11), T2203 |

| 59310 | $ | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older – NB | T2203 |

| 59320 | $ | Caregiver amount – NB | T2203 |

| 59330 | $ | Disability amount for self – NB | T2203 |

| 59340 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – NB | T2203 |

| 59350 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – NB | T2203 |

| 59360 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – NB | T2203 |

| 59370 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – NB | T2203 |

| 59430 | $ | Disability amount for self – YT | T2203 |

| 59440 | $ | Disability amount transferred from a dependant – YT | T2203 |

| 59450 | $ | Total provincial amounts designated to you by a student – YT | T2203 |

| 59460 | $ | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – YT | T2203 |

| 59470 | $ | Allowable amount of medical expenses for other dependants – YT | T2203 |

| 59700 | N | Certificate 1 – Program type from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59710 | $ | Certificate 1 – Eligible tuition fees paid | RC360 |

| 59720 | $ | Certificate 1 – "Eligibility Maximum" from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59730 | N | Certificate 2 – Program type from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59740 | $ | Certificate 2 – Eligible tuition fees paid | RC360 |

| 59750 | $ | Certificate 2 – "Eligibility Maximum" from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59760 | N | Certificate 3 – Program type from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59770 | $ | Certificate 3 – Eligible tuition fees paid | RC360 |

| 59780 | $ | Certificate 3 – "Eligibility Maximum" from the current tax year | RC360 |

| 59800 | $/¢ | Active families benefit | SK479 |

| 60030 | $ | AB political contributions made in the tax year | AB428, AB428MJ |

| 60330 | $ | Basic sales tax credit | BC479 |

| 60350 | $ | Additional credit for spouse or common-law partner | BC479 |

| 60360 | $ | Home renovation expenses | NB(S12) |

| 60400 | $ | BC political contributions made in the tax year | BC428, BC248MJ |

| 60450 | $/¢ | Employee share ownership plan tax credit | BC428, BC248MJ |

| 60470 | $/¢ | Employee venture capital corporation tax credit | BC428, BC248MJ |

| 60480 | $ | Home renovation expenses for seniors and persons with disabilities | BC479 |

| 60488 | N | Venture capital tax credit certificate number – Shares acquired between January 1, 2025 and March 3, 2025 | BC479 |

| 60489 | $/¢ | Venture capital tax credit – Shares acquired from January 1, 2025 to March 3, 2025 | BC479 |

| 60490 | $/¢ | Venture capital tax credit – Shares acquired from March 4, 2025 to December 31, 2025 | BC479 |

| 60491 | N | Venture capital tax credit certificate number – Shares acquired from March 4, 2025 to December 31, 2025 | BC479 |

| 60495 | $/¢ | Venture capital tax credit – First 60 days of the year following the current tax year | BC479 |

| 60496 | N | Venture capital tax credit certificate number – Shares acquired in the first 60 days of the year following the current tax year | BC479 |

| 60510 | $/¢ | Mining exploration tax credit | BC479 |

| 60530 | $ | Mining exploration tax credit allocated from a partnership | BC479 |

| 60545 | $/¢ | Clean buildings tax credit | BC479 |

| 60546 | $/¢ | Clean buildings tax credit allocated from partnerships | BC479 |

| 60550 | $ | Training tax credit (Individuals) | BC479 |

| 60560 | $/¢ | Training tax credit (Employers) | BC479 |

| 60570 | $/¢ | Shipbuilding and ship repair industry tax credit | BC479 |

| 60575 | N | Eligible rental months | BC479 |

| 60576 | $/¢ | Renter’s tax credit | BC479 |

| 60700 | $ | Age amount for spouse or common-law partner | MB428-A, MB428-A MJ |

| 60710 | $ | Disability amount for spouse or common-law partner | MB428-A, MB428-A MJ |

| 60720 | N | Number of disability claims for self or a dependant other than your spouse or common-law partner | MB428-A, MB428-A MJ |

| 60740 | N | Number of disabled dependants 18 years of age or older | MB428-A, MB428-A MJ |

| 60760 | N | Number of dependent children 18 years of age or younger | MB428-A, MB428-A MJ |

| 60800 | $/¢ | Labour-sponsored funds tax credit | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 60830 | $/¢ | Community enterprise development tax credit claimed | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 60835 | $/¢ | Community enterprise development tax credit amount from Slip T2CEDTC (MAN.) | T1256 |

| 60850 | $/¢ | Small business venture capital tax credit claimed | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 60855 | $/¢ | Credit amount from Slip T2SBVCTC (MAN.) for shares issued before April 7, 2021 | T1256-1 |

| 60856 | $/¢ | Credit amount from Slip T2SBVCTC (MAN.) for shares issued after April 6, 2021 | T1256-1 |

| 60860 | $/¢ | Employee share purchase tax credit claimed | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 60890 | N | Involuntary separation indicator | NB(S12), MB479, BC479 |

| 60900 | $ | Basic, age, and disability credits for spouse or common-law partner | MB479 |

| 60920 | $/¢ | Mineral exploration tax credit claimed | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 60940 | $/¢ | Total credit amounts from ESOP receipt(s) | T1256-2 |

| 60950 | N | Number of disability claims for self or for a dependant other than your spouse or common-law partner | MB479 |

| 60969 | N | Number of dependent children 18 years of age or younger | ON428, ON428MJ |

| 60970 | N | Number of disabled dependants 18 years of age or older | MB479 |

| 60970 | N | Number dependants with a mental or physical infirmity | ON428, ON428MJ |

| 60999 | N | Number of dependent children – Reduction for dependent children age 18 or younger | PE428, NS428, PE428MJ, NS428MJ |

| 60999 | N | Number of dependent children – Credit for dependent children age 18 or younger | MB479 |

| 61020 | N | Application for the ON energy and property tax credit | ON-BEN |

| 61040 | N | Application for the Northern ON energy credit | ON-BEN |

| 61050 | $ | Total personal tax credits | MB479 |

| 61060 | N | Choice for delayed single OTB payment | ON-BEN |

| 61070 | N | Application for the ON senior homeowners' property tax grant | ON-BEN |

| 61080 | N | Involuntary separation indicator | ON-BEN |

| 61100 | $ | Total rent paid | ON-BEN |

| 61120 | $ | Total property tax paid | ON-BEN |

| 61120 | $ | Net school taxes paid | MB479 |

| 61140 | $ | Homeowners affordability tax credit advance received | MB479 |

| 61140 | N | Residing in a designated student residence | ON-BEN |

| 61160 | $ | Eligible school taxes | MB479 |

| 61163 | N | Number of days at address for the homeowners affordability tax credit | MB479 |

| 61165 | $/¢ | Rent paid | MB479 |

| 61167 | N | Number of months for the renters affordability tax credit | MB479 |

| 61170 | $ | Gross school taxes assessed | MB479 |

| 61210 | $ | Total home energy costs for principal residence on a reserve | ON-BEN |

| 61230 | $ | Total accommodation in a public long-term care home or non-profit long-term care home | ON-BEN |

| 61255 | N | Employment and income assistance – box 14 of Form T5007 | MB479 |

| 61260 | $/¢ | Primary caregiver tax credit | MB479 |

| 61268 | $ | Eligible medical expenses for fertility treatment | ON479, MB479, SK479, YT479 |

| 61310 | $/¢ | Paid work experience tax credit | MB479 |

| 61340 | $/¢ | Odour-control tax credit | MB479 |

| 61380 | $/¢ | Green energy equipment tax credit (purchaser) | MB479 |

| 61390 | $/¢ | Green energy equipment tax credit (manufacturer) | MB479 |

| 61430 | $/¢ | Book publishing tax credit | MB479 |

| 61470 | $ | Family tax benefit | MB428, T2203 |

| 61480 | $/¢ | Cultural industries printing tax credit | MB479 |

| 61484 | $/¢ | Community enterprise development tax credit | MB479 |

| 61490 | $/¢ | Employee share purchase tax credit | MB479 |

| 61495 | $ | Eligible teaching supplies expenses | MB479 |

| 61496 | $ | Rental Housing Construction Incentive | MB479 |

| 61499 | $/¢ | Farm and small business capital gains tax credit | SK428, SK428MJ |

| 61500 | $ | Provincial or territorial non-refundable tax credits | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 61510 | $/¢ | Provincial or territorial tax on split income | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 61520 | $/¢ | Provincial or territorial dividend tax credit | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 61540 | $/¢ | Provincial or territorial minimum tax carryover | Form 428 for all provinces and territories |

| 61545 | $/¢ | Alberta supplemental tax credit | AB428 |

| 61550 | $ | NB political contributions made in the tax year | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61560 | $/¢ | Unused low-income tax reduction from spouse or common-law partner | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61570 | $ | Basic reduction | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61580 | $ | Reduction for spouse or common-law partner | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61590 | $ | Reduction for an eligible dependant | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61670 | $/¢ | Labour-sponsored venture capital tax credit | NB428, NB428MJ |

| 61690 | $/¢ | Small business investor tax credit | T1258 |

| 61700 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1258 |

| 61710 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1258 |

| 61720 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1258 |

| 61740 | $ | Resort property investment tax credit | T1297 |

| 61750 | $ | NL political contributions made in the tax year | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61770 | $/¢ | Direct equity tax credit | T1272 |

| 61780 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1272 |

| 61790 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1272 |

| 61794 | $ | MB political contributions made in the tax year | MB428, MB428MJ |

| 61800 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1272 |

| 61820 | $/¢ | Venture capital tax credit | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61830 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1297 |

| 61840 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1297 |

| 61850 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1297 |

| 61860 | $/¢ | Unused low-income tax reduction from spouse or common-law partner | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61870 | $ | Basic reduction | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61880 | $ | Reduction for spouse or common-law partner | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61890 | $ | Reduction for an eligible dependant | NL428, NL428MJ |

| 61950 | $ | Basic reduction | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 61970 | $ | Reduction for spouse or common-law partner | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 61990 | $ | Reduction for an eligible dependant | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 62000 | $ | Physical activity expenses | NL479 |

| 62100 | $ | NS political contributions made in the tax year | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 62140 | $/¢ | Low-income individuals and families tax credit | ON428, ON428MJ |

| 62150 | $ | Food bank tax credit for farmers | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 62150 | $ | Community food program donation tax credit for farmers | ON428, ON428MJ |

| 62180 | $/¢ | Labour-sponsored venture capital tax credit | NS428, NS428MJ |

| 62200 | $/¢ | Equity tax credit | T1285 |

| 62201 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1285 |

| 62202 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1285 |

| 62203 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1285 |

| 62250 | $/¢ | Innovation equity tax credit | T225 |

| 62290 | $ | Volunteer firefighters and search and rescue volunteers tax credit | NU428, NU428MJ |

| 62300 | $/¢ | Venture capital tax credit | T224 |

| 62400 | $ | Volunteer firefighters and ground search and rescue tax credit | NS479 |

| 62410 | $ | Children’s sports and arts expenses | NS479 |

| 62450 | $ | Amount claimed for foreign income on line 25600 of the return that is exempt under a tax treaty | NT479, NU479 |

| 62460 | $ | Basic cost of living tax credit for self | NT479 |

| 62470 | $ | Cost of living tax credit supplement for spouse or common-law partner | NT479 |

| 62480 | $ | The "basic credit for self" claimed by the spouse or common-law partner | NT479 |

| 62490 | $ | Cost of living tax credit supplement | NT479 |

| 62510 | $ | Northwest Territories credit | NT479 |

| 62550 | $ | NT political contributions made in the tax year | NT428, NT428MJ |

| 63045 | $ | Child care expenses deduction of the other supporting person | Schedule ON479-A |

| 63047 | $ | Adjusted income of the other supporting person(s) | Schedule ON479-A |

| 63050 | $/¢ | Childcare access and relief from expenses tax credit | ON479 |

| 63095 | $/¢ | Seniors’ care at home tax credit | ON479 |

| 63100 | $ | Seniors' public transit tax credit | ON479 |

| 63110 | $ | ON political contributions made in the tax year | ON479 |

| 63220 | $ | Focused flow-through share tax credit | ON479 |

| 63260 | N | Tax credits for self-employed individuals – Work placements | ON479 |

| 63265 | N | Tax credits claimed as a member of a partnership | ON479 |

| 63270 | N | Business number | ON479 |

| 63300 | $/¢ | Co-operative education tax credit | ON479 |

| 63360 | $/¢ | Unused low-income tax reduction from spouse or common-law partner | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63370 | $ | Basic reduction | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63380 | $ | Age reduction for self | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63390 | $ | Reduction for spouse or common-law partner | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63400 | $ | Age reduction for spouse or common-law partner | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63410 | $ | Reduction for an eligible dependant | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63420 | $ | PE political contributions made in the tax year | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63430 | $ | Basic and certification tax credits (level 1 and/or level 2 of a non-Red Seal programs) | T1014 |

| 63440 | $ | Completion and certification tax credit (level 3 of a Red Seal or non-Red Seal program) | T1014 |

| 63450 | $ | Completion and certification tax credit (level 4 of a Red Seal or non-Red Seal program) | T1014 |

| 63460 | $ | Enhanced tax credit | T1014 |

| 63470 | $/¢ | Basic tax credit | T1014-1 |

| 63480 | $/¢ | Completion tax credit | T1014-1 |

| 63490 | $/¢ | Enhanced tax credit | T1014-1 |

| 63500 | $ | Equity tax credit | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63510 | $ | Volunteer firefighter and volunteer search and rescue personnel tax credit | PE428, PE428MJ |

| 63554 | $ | SK political contributions made in the tax year | SK428, SK428MJ |

| 63557 | $/¢ | Labour-sponsored venture capital tax credit | SK428, SK428MJ |

| 63600 | $/¢ | Mineral exploration tax credit | T1279 |

| 63601 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1279 |

| 63602 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1279 |

| 63603 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1279 |

| 63640 | $/¢ | Graduate tuition tax credit | SK428, SK428MJ |

| 63710 | N | Number of qualifying children under 6 years of age | NU428, T2203 |

| 63800 | $ | Children's fitness tax credit | YT479 |

| 63810 | $/¢ | Business investment tax credit | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63811 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63812 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63813 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63840 | $/¢ | Research and development tax credit | YT479 |

| 63850 | $ | YT political contributions made in the tax year | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63855 | $/¢ | General business carbon price rebate | YT479 |

| 63856 | $/¢ | Mining business carbon price rebate | YT479 |

| 63857 | N | Yukon Health Care card | YT479 |

| 63860 | $/¢ | Yukon First Nations income tax credit | YT428, YT428MJ |

| 63940 | $/¢ | Cost of living supplement | NU479 |

| 63990 | $/¢ | Total cost of living tax credit | NU479 |

| 63991 | $ | NU political contributions made in the tax year | NU479 |

| 64850 | $ | Total eligible expenses for the GST rebate | GST370 |

| 64857 | $ | Total eligible expenses for the HST rebate | GST370 |

| 64860 | $ | Total eligible expenses for the HST rebate | GST370 |

| 65050 | $/¢ | Estimated refund amount | RC71 |

| 65070 | $/¢ | Amount owed to the taxpayer by the discounter | RC71 |

| 65090 | N | Date for taxpayer certification | RC71 |

| 65210 | $ | Benefits that can no longer be defered | T1212 |

| 65220 | $ | Closing balance of defered security option benefits | T1212 |

| 66250 | $ | Non-capital loss to be applied to the third prior year | T1A |

| 66260 | $ | Non-capital loss to be applied to the second prior year | T1A |

| 66270 | $ | Non-capital loss to be applied to the first prior year | T1A |

| 66300 | $ | Farming or fishing loss to be applied to the third prior year | T1A |

| 66310 | $ | Farming or fishing loss to be applied to the second prior year | T1A |

| 66320 | $ | Farming or fishing loss to be applied to the first prior year | T1A |

| 66360 | $ | Net capital loss to be applied to the third prior year | T1A |

| 66370 | $ | Net capital loss to be applied to the second prior year | T1A |

| 66380 | $ | Net capital loss to be applied to the first prior year | T1A |

| 66420 | $ | Listed personal property net loss to be applied to the third prior year listed personal property net gains | T1A |

| 66430 | $ | Listed personal property net loss to be applied to the second prior year listed personal property net gains | T1A |

| 66440 | $ | Listed personal property net loss to be applied to the first prior year listed personal property net gains | T1A |

| 66480 | $ | Restricted farm loss to be applied to the third prior year | T1A |

| 66490 | $ | Restricted farm loss to be applied to the second prior year | T1A |

| 66500 | $ | Restricted farm loss to be applied to the first prior year | T1A |

| 66831 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QFFP under a QBT after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66832 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QFFP under a QCC after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66833 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QSBCS under a QBT after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66834 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QSBCS under a QCC after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66843 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of QFFP to your child after 2015, under a QBT or QCC after 2023, and all other dispositions of QFFP after 2020 | T2017 |

| 66844 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QFFP to your child after 2016, and all other dispositions of QFFP after 2021 other than a QBT or a QCC | T2017 |

| 66850 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of QSBCS to your child after 2016 and all other dispositions of QSBCS other than a QBT or QCC after 2021 | T2017 |

| 66883 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of QSBCS to your child after 2015, under a QBT after 2023 and all other dispositions of QSBCS after 2020 | T2017 |

| 66905 | $ | Amount of the most recent reserves claimed on line 66850 | T2017 |

| 66910 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of family farm or fishing property to your child after 2015 (other than QFFP) | T2017 |

| 66920 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of family farm or fishing property to your child (other than QFFP) after 2016 | T2017 |

| 66930 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of property under a QBT (other than QFFP and QSBCS) after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66935 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of property under a QBT (other than QFFP and QSBCS) after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66937 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of property under a QCC (other than QFFP and QSBCS) after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66939 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of property under a QCC (other than QFFP and QSBCS) after 2023 | T2017 |

| 66960 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions of property after 2020, other than dispositions listed on lines 66843, 66883, 66910 and 66930 | T2017 |

| 66990 | $ | Amount of 2025 reserve for dispositions of property after 2021, other than dispositions listed on lines 66844, 66850, 66920, 66935, and 66939 | T2017 |

| 67030 | $ | Amount of 2024 reserve for dispositions before November 13, 1981 | T2017 |

| 67060 | $ | Total reserve | T2017 |

| 67061 | $ | Total gross eligible farming expenses for all businesses | T2043 |

| 67062 | N | Multiple farming businesses with one or more permanent establishments in multiple provinces and territories | T2043 |

| 67063 | $ | Farming expenses in Ontario | T2043 |

| 67064 | $ | Farming expenses in Manitoba | T2043 |

| 67065 | $ | Farming expenses in Saskatchewan | T2043 |

| 67066 | $ | Farming expenses in Alberta | T2043 |

| 67067 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in ON from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67068 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in MB from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67069 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in SK from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67070 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in AB from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67071 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in ON from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67072 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in MB from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67073 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in SK from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67074 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in AB rom all businesses | T2043 |

| 67075 | $ | Total gross income in all provinces and territories from all farming businesses | T2043 |

| 67076 | $ | Total salaries and wages paid to employees in all provinces and territories from all farming businesses | T2043 |

| 67079 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for ON (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67080 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for MB (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67081 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for SK (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67082 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for AB (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67091 | $ | Farming expenses in Nova Scotia | T2043 |

| 67092 | $ | Farming expenses in Prince Edward Island | T2043 |

| 67093 | $ | Farming expenses in Newfoundland and Labrador | T2043 |

| 67094 | $ | Farming expenses in New Brunswick | T2043 |

| 67095 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in NS from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67096 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in PE from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67097 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in NL from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67098 | $ | Gross farming revenue allocated to the permanent establishments in NB from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67099 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in NS from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67100 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in PE from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67101 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in NL from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67102 | $ | Farming salaries and wages paid to employees in NB from all businesses | T2043 |

| 67103 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for NS (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67104 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for PE (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67105 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for NL (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67106 | $/¢ | Credit allocated from a partnership for NB (box 237 of T5013 slips or letter) | T2043 |

| 67120 | $ | ITC for total qualified expenditures for SR&ED | T2038(IND) |

| 67130 | $ | 80% of total contributions made to agricultural organizations for SR&ED | T2038(IND) |

| 67135 | $/¢ | ITC allocated from a partnership for SR&ED | T2038(IND) |

| 67140 | $ | ITC for total investments in qualified property | T2038(IND) |

| 67170 | $ | Mineral exploration tax credit | T2038(IND) |

| 67175 | $ | Critical mineral exploration tax credit | T2038(IND) |

| 67180 | $ | Total apprenticeship job creation tax credit | T2038(IND) |

| 67184 | $ | Repayment of assistance for SR&ED at 20% | T2038(IND) |

| 67185 | $ | Repayment of assistance for SR&ED at 15% | T2038(IND) |

| 67193 | $ | Amount of expenditure on which ITC is recaptured at 15% | T2038(IND) |

| 67195 | $ | Amount of expenditure on which ITC is recaptured at 20% | T2038(IND) |

| 67200 | $/¢ | Amount of carryback to the third previous year | T2038(IND) |

| 67210 | $/¢ | Amount of carryback to the second previous year | T2038(IND) |

| 67220 | $/¢ | Amount of carryback to the first previous year | T2038(IND) |

| 67490 | $ | Maximum residency amount for residents of prescribed northern zones | T2222 |

| 67507 | $ | Non-taxable benefits for board and lodging at a special work site in a prescribed northern zone | T2222 |

| 67520 | $ | Maximum residency amount for residents of prescribed intermediate zones | T2222 |

| 67529 | $ | Non-taxable benefits for board and lodging at a special work site in a prescribed intermediate zone | T2222 |

| 67540 | $ | Total travel amount for trips from a prescribed northern zone | T2222 |

| 67560 | $ | Total travel amount for trips from a prescribed intermediate zone | T2222 |

| 67650 | $ | Claim for tax shelter loss or deduction | T5004 |

| 67820 | $ | Amount of loss created or increased by CCA and carrying charges on certified film property | T691 |

| 67830 | $ | Amount of loss created or increased by CCA and carrying charges on rental and leasing property | T691 |

| 67840 | $ | Losses, amounts deductible and carrying charges for tax shelters, limited partnership, and non-active partners | T691 |

| 67860 | $ | Total of all resource expenditures, depletion allowances, and carrying charges for resource property and flow through shares | T691 |

| 67870 | $ | Certain capital gains from graduated rate estates | T691 |

| 67880 | $ | Part of total capital gains that is exempt from Canadian tax under a tax treaty | T691 |

| 67910 | $ | Security options deductions under paragraph 110(1)(d) | T691 |

| 67914 | $ | Gifts of securities acquired under a security option plan for dispositions after June 24, 2024. | T691 |

| 67918 | $ | Other security options deductions included on line 24900 | T691 |

| 67920 | $ | Limited partnership losses incured in prior years that are tax shelters | T691 |

| 67922 | $ | Adjusted net capital losses from other years for AMT | T691 |

| 67924 | $ | Non-deductible property expenses | T691 |

| 67926 | $ | Deductible office and employment expenses | T691 |

| 67930 | $ | Federal tax payable under alternative minimum tax | T691 |

| 67940 | $ | Non-taxable foreign capital gains for AMT | T691 |

| 67950 | $ | Child care expenses paid | T778 |

| 67954 | $ | Child care expenses incured for a child age 6 or younger | T778 |

| 67960 | $ | Basic limit for eligible children born in the current tax year or earlier for whom the disability amount can be claimed | T778 |

| 67980 | $ | Part C – Child care expenses paid by the other person with lower net income | T778 |

| 67990 | $ | Part D – Child care expenses paid while enrolled in an educational program | T778 |

| 68020 | $ | Total eligible pensions or superannuation, annuity and RRSP/RRIF payments (including life income fund) received | T1032 |

| 68025 | $ | Veteran's benefits on T4A slips eligible for pension income splitting | T1032 |

| 68026 | $ | Distributions on T4A-RCA slips eligible for pension income splitting | T1032 |

| 68030 | N | Number of months married or living common-law in the current tax year | T1032 |

| 68040 | $/¢ | Total tax deducted from the transferring spouse's or common-law partner's pension income | T1032 |

| 68050 | $/¢ | Tax deducted for the elected split-pension amount | T1032 |

| 68080 | $ | Any other investment expenses claimed in the current tax year to earn property income | T936 |

| 68100 | $ | Any other property income reported in the current tax year | T936 |

| 68110 | $ | 50% of income from the recovery of exploration and development expenses | T936 |

| 68140 | $ | Capital gains from T3 slips | T936 |

| 68150 | $ | Non-eligible capital gains from T3 slips | T936 |

| 68200 | $/¢ | Special tax for Quebec LSVCC | T5006 |

| 68210 | $ | Excess employees profit-sharing plan amounts | RC359 |

| 68220 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of shares and rights that are publicly traded, other shares, segregated fund units and mutual fund units | T1170 |

| 68230 | $ | Gains eligible for 0% inclusion rate from the disposition of shares and rights that are publicly traded, other shares, segregated fund units and mutual funds units | T1170 |

| 68231 | $ | Deemed capital gains on the donation of flow-through shares | T1170 |

| 68240 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of bonds and debentures that are publicly traded, and other properties | T1170 |

| 68250 | $ | Gains eligible for 0% inclusion rate from the disposition of bonds and debentures that are publicly traded, and other properties | T1170 |

| 68251 | $ | Proceeds of disposition of ecologically sensitive land | T1170 |

| 68252 | $ | Gains eligible for 0% inclusion rate from the disposition of ecologically sensitive land | T1170 |

| 68270 | $ | Total of all accumulated income payments | T1172 |

| 68280 | $ | Total of all accumulated income payments | T1172 |

| 68330 | $ | Taxable amount of dividends (eligible and other than eligible) from taxable Canadian corporations | T1206 |

| 68340 | $ | Taxable amount of dividends other than eligible dividends, included on line 68330, from taxable Canadian corporations | T1206 |

| 68360 | $ | Total split income | T1206 |

| 68370 | $ | Split income from foreign sources | T1206 |

| 68380 | $ | Total income from foreign sources | T1206 |

| 68518 | $ | QRLSP – Total amount (principal and interest) | T1198 |

| 68519 | $ | QRLSP – Total principal (current and prior years) | T1198 |

| 68520 | $ | QRLSP – 40th prior year | T1198 |

| 68521 | $ | QRLSP – 39th prior year | T1198 |

| 68522 | $ | QRLSP – 38th prior year | T1198 |

| 68523 | $ | QRLSP – 37th prior year | T1198 |

| 68524 | $ | QRLSP – 36th prior year | T1198 |

| 68525 | $ | QRLSP – 35th prior year | T1198 |

| 68526 | $ | QRLSP – 34th prior year | T1198 |

| 68527 | $ | QRLSP – 33rd prior year | T1198 |

| 68528 | $ | QRLSP – 32nd prior year | T1198 |

| 68529 | $ | QRLSP – 31st prior year | T1198 |

| 68530 | $ | QRLSP – 30th prior year | T1198 |

| 68531 | $ | QRLSP – 29th prior year | T1198 |

| 68532 | $ | QRLSP – 28th prior year | T1198 |

| 68533 | $ | QRLSP – 27th prior year | T1198 |

| 68534 | $ | QRLSP – 26th prior year | T1198 |

| 68535 | $ | QRLSP – 25th prior year | T1198 |

| 68536 | $ | QRLSP – 24th prior year | T1198 |

| 68537 | $ | QRLSP – 23rd prior year | T1198 |

| 68538 | $ | QRLSP – 22nd prior year | T1198 |

| 68539 | $ | QRLSP – 21st prior year | T1198 |

| 68540 | $ | QRLSP – 20th prior year | T1198 |

| 68541 | $ | QRLSP – 19th prior year | T1198 |

| 68542 | $ | QRLSP – 18th prior year | T1198 |

| 68543 | $ | QRLSP – 17th prior year | T1198 |

| 68544 | $ | QRLSP – 16th prior year | T1198 |

| 68545 | $ | QRLSP – 15th prior year | T1198 |

| 68546 | $ | QRLSP – 14th prior year | T1198 |

| 68547 | $ | QRLSP – 13th prior year | T1198 |

| 68548 | $ | QRLSP – 12th prior year | T1198 |

| 68549 | $ | QRLSP – 11th prior year | T1198 |

| 68550 | $ | QRLSP – 10th prior year | T1198 |

| 68551 | $ | QRLSP – 9th prior year | T1198 |

| 68552 | $ | QRLSP – 8th prior year | T1198 |

| 68553 | $ | QRLSP – 7th prior year | T1198 |

| 68554 | $ | QRLSP – 6th prior year | T1198 |

| 68555 | $ | QRLSP – 5th prior year | T1198 |

| 68556 | $ | QRLSP – 4th prior year | T1198 |

| 68557 | $ | QRLSP – 3rd prior year | T1198 |

| 68558 | $ | QRLSP – 2nd prior year | T1198 |

| 68559 | $ | QRLSP – 1st prior year | T1198 |

| 68560 | $ | QRLSP – Current year | T1198 |

| 68800 | $/¢ | Curent-year credit available | T1231 |

| 68810 | $/¢ | Mining flow-through share tax credit | BC428, BC428MJ |

| 68820 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the first prior year | T1231 |

| 68830 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the second prior year | T1231 |

| 68840 | $/¢ | Amount to carry back to the third prior year | T1231 |

| 68850 | $/¢ | Curent year tax credit available | T1241 |

| 68930 | N | First FHSA or new successor holder indicator | Schedule 15 |

| 68935 | $ | Total contributions made to FHSAs in the tax year | Schedule 15 |

| 68940 | $ | Total contributions made to FHSAs in the tax year after the first qualifying withdrawal | Schedule 15 |

| 68945 | $ | Total designated withdrawals from FHSAs made in the tax year to reduce or eliminate an excess FHSA amount | Schedule 15 |

| 68950 | $ | Total transfers made from RRSPs to FHSAs in the tax year | Schedule 15 |

| 68955 | $ | Total designated transfers from FHSAs to RRSPs or RRIFs made in the year | Schedule 15 |

| 68960 | $ | Total amount of qualifying withdrawals made in the tax year | Schedule 15 |

| 68965 | N | FHSA home address indicator | Schedule 15 |

#### Appendix G2 – Line numbers used on SFD records

The following is a list of valid line numbers that can be used on SFD records. All SFD lines are dollar amounts only.

| Line | Description | Forms |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 575 | Point of sale adjustments | T1163, T1273 |

| 1770 | Tradesperson’s tools expenses | T777 |

| 1771 | Labour mobility deduction | T777 |

| 1776 | Musical instrument expenses | T777 |

| 1777 | Capital cost allowance for musical instruments | T777 |

| 8000 | Adjusted gross sales | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8000 | Adjusted professional fees | T2125, SFD type 03 only |

| 8140 | Total gross short-term rental income | T776 |

| 8141 | Total of your gross rents in the year you receive them | T776 |

| 8230 | Other income | T776, T2125 |

| 8290 | Reserves deducted last year | T2125 |

| 8299 | Total gross rental income | T776 |

| 8299 | Gross income | T2121 |

| 8299 | Gross business income | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8299 | Gross professional income | T2125, SFD type 03 only |

| 8300 | Opening inventory (include raw materials, goods in process and finished goods | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8320 | Purchases during the year (net of returns, allowances and discounts | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8340 | Direct wage costs | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8360 | Subcontracts | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8450 | Other costs | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8500 | Closing inventory (include raw materials, goods in process and finished goods | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8518 | Cost of goods sold | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8519 | Gross profit or loss | T2125, SFD type 02 only |

| 8520 | Advertising and promotion | T777 |

| 8521 | Advertising | T776, T2125 |

| 8523 | Food, beverages, and entertainment expenses | T777 |

| 8523 | Meals and entertainment | T2121, T2125 |

| 8523 | Part 2A – Total amount you paid for meals | TL2 |

| 8528 | Part 2B – Total amount you paid for meals | TL2 |

| 8590 | Bad debts | T2125 |

| 8690 | Insurance | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 8710 | Interest and bank charges | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 8760 | Business taxes, licences and memberships | T2121, T2125 |

| 8810 | Office expenses | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 8810 | Office supplies (postage, stationery, ink cartridge, etc.) | T777 |

| 8811 | Office stationery and supplies | T2125 |

| 8860 | Professional fees (includes legal and accounting fees) | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 8862 | Accounting and legal fees | T777 |

| 8871 | Management and administration fees | T776, T2125 |

| 8910 | Parking | T777 |

| 8910 | Rent | T2125 |

| 8960 | Repairs and maintenance | T776, T2125 |

| 8963 | Repairs and maintenance: Fishing boat – Your cost | T2121 |

| 9060 | Salaries, wages and benefits (including employer’s contributions) | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 9062 | Crew shares | T2121 |

| 9131 | Apprentice mechanic tools expenses | T777 |

| 9136 | Fishing gear | T2121 |

| 9137 | Nets and traps | T2121 |

| 9138 | Salt, bait and ice | T2121 |

| 9180 | Property taxes | T776, T2125 |

| 9200 | Travel | T776 |

| 9200 | Lodging | T777 |

| 9200 | Travel expenses | T2125 |

| 9200 | Allowable amount you paid for lodging | TL2 |

| 9220 | Utilities | T776, T2125 |

| 9224 | Fuel costs (except for motor vehicles) | T2121, T2125 |

| 9270 | Other expenses | T776 |

| 9270 | Other expenses (employment use of a cell phone, long distance calls for employment purposes, etc.) | T777 |

| 9270 | Other expenses (specify) | T2121, T2125 |

| 9275 | Delivery, freight and express | T2121, T2125 |

| 9281 | Motor vehicle expenses (not including CCA) | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 9281 | Allowable motor vehicle expenses | T777 |

| 9365 | Total expenses for short-term rental portion | T776 |

| 9366 | Non-compliant short-term rental expenses | T776 |

| 9367 | Non-compliant CCA for short-term rentals | T776 |

| 9368 | Total expenses | T777, T2121, T2125 |

| 9369 | Net income (loss) before adjustments | T776, T2121, T2125 |

| 9370 | Grains and oilseeds | T2042 |

| 9371 | Wheat | T2042 |

| 9372 | Oats | T2042 |

| 9373 | Barley | T2042 |

| 9374 | Mixed grains | T2042 |

| 9375 | Corn | T2042 |

| 9376 | Canola | T2042 |

| 9377 | Flaxseed | T2042 |

| 9378 | Soybeans | T2042 |

| 9420 | Other crops | T2042 |

| 9421 | Fruits | T2042 |

| 9422 | Potatoes | T2042 |

| 9423 | Vegetables (not including potatoes) | T2042 |

| 9424 | Tobacco | T2042 |

| 9425 | Greenhouse and nursery products | T2042 |

| 9426 | Forage crops or seeds | T2042 |

| 9470 | Livestock sold – Livestock and animal products revenue | T2042 |

| 9471 | Livestock sold – Cattle | T2042 |

| 9472 | Livestock sold – Swine | T2042 |

| 9473 | Livestock sold – Poultry | T2042 |

| 9474 | Livestock sold – Sheep and lambs | T2042 |

| 9476 | Milk and cream (not including dairy subsidies) | T2042 |

| 9477 | Eggs for consumption | T2042 |

| 9520 | Other commodities | T2042 |

| 9540 | Other program payments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9540 | Program payments – Other program payments | T2042 |

| 9541 | Program payments – Dairy subsidies | T2042 |

| 9542 | Program payments – Crop insurance | T2042 |

| 9544 | Business risk management (BRM) and disaster assistance program payments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9570 | Rebates | T2042 |

| 9574 | Resales, rebates, GST/HST for allowable expenses | T1163, T1273 |

| 9575 | Resales, rebates, GST/HST for non-allowable expenses, and recapture of capital cost allowance (CCA) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9600 | Other (specify) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9600 | Other income (specify) | T2042, T2121 |

| 9601 | Agricultural contract work | T1163, T1273 |

| 9601 | Custom or contract work (includes machine rentals) | T2042 |

| 9604 | Insurance proceeds | T2042 |

| 9605 | Patronage dividends | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9607 | Interest | T1163, T1273 |

| 9610 | Gravel | T1163, T1273 |

| 9611 | Trucking (farm-related only) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9612 | Resales of commodities purchased | T1163, T1273 |

| 9613 | Leases (gas, oil well, surface, etc.) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9614 | Machine rentals | T1163, T1273 |

| 9659 | Gross income | T2042 |

| 9661 | Containers and twine | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9662 | Fertilizers and soil supplements | T1163, T1273 |

| 9662 | Fertilizers and lime | T2042 |

| 9663 | Pesticides and chemical treatments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9663 | Pesticides (herbicides, insecticides, fungicides) | T2042 |

| 9664 | Seeds and plants | T2042 |

| 9665 | Insurance premiums (crop or production) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9711 | Feed, supplements, straw and bedding | T2042 |

| 9712 | Livestock purchases | T2042 |

| 9713 | Veterinary fees, medicine, and breeding fees | T1163, T1273 |

| 9713 | Veterinary fees, medicine and breeding fees | T2042 |

| 9714 | Minerals and salts | T1163, T1273 |

| 9760 | Machinery (repairs, licences, insurance) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9760 | Machinery expenses – Repairs, licences and insurance | T2042 |

| 9764 | Machinery (gasoline, diesel fuel, oil) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9764 | Machinery expenses – Gasoline, diesel fuel and oil | T2042 |

| 9765 | Machinery lease/rental | T1163, T1273 |

| 9790 | Total other expenses | T2042 |

| 9792 | Advertising and promotion costs | T1163, T1273 |

| 9795 | Building and fence repairs | T1163, T1273 |

| 9795 | Building repairs and maintenance (includes fence repairs) | T2042 |

| 9796 | Land clearing and draining | T1163, T1273 |

| 9796 | Clearing, levelling and draining land | T2042 |

| 9797 | Crop insurance, Revenue Protection Program and stabilization premiums | T2042 |

| 9798 | Agricultural contract work | T1163, T1273 |

| 9798 | Custom or contract work (includes machine rentals) | T2042 |

| 9799 | Electricity | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9801 | Freight and shipping | T1163, T1273 |

| 9802 | Heating fuel | T1163, T1273 |

| 9802 | Heating fuel and curing fuel | T2042 |

| 9803 | Insurance program overpayment recapture | T2042 |

| 9804 | Other insurance premiums | T1163, T1273 |

| 9804 | Insurance | T2042 |

| 9805 | Interest (real estate, mortgage, other) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9805 | Interest and bank charges | T2042 |

| 9807 | Memberships/subscription fees | T1163, T1273 |

| 9808 | Office expenses | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9809 | Legal and accounting fees | T1163, T1273 |

| 9809 | Professional fees (includes legal and accounting fees) | T2042 |

| 9810 | Property taxes | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9811 | Rent (land, buildings, pastures) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9811 | Rent (land, buildings and pastures) | T2042 |

| 9814 | Salaries, wages and benefits (including employer’s contributions) | T2042 |

| 9815 | Arm’s length salaries | T1163, T1273 |

| 9816 | Non-arm’s length salaries | T1163, T1273 |

| 9819 | Motor vehicle expenses | T1163, T1273 |

| 9819 | Motor vehicle expenses (not including CCA) | T2042 |

| 9820 | Small tools | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9821 | Soil testing | T1163, T1273 |

| 9822 | Storage/drying | T1163, T1273 |

| 9823 | Licences/permits | T1163, T1273 |

| 9824 | Telephone | T1163, T1273 |

| 9825 | Quota rental (tobacco, dairy) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9826 | Gravel | T1163, T1273 |

| 9827 | Purchases of commodities resold | T1163, T1273 |

| 9829 | Motor vehicle interest and leasing costs | T1163, T1273 |

| 9836 | Commissions and levies | T1163, T1273 |

| 9896 | Other (specify) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9898 | Total farm expenses | T2042 |

| 9899 | Net income (loss) before inventory adjustments | T2042 |

| 9923 | Total cost of all land additions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9924 | Total proceeds from all land dispositions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9925 | Total equipment additions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9926 | Total equipment dispositions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9927 | Total building additions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9928 | Total building dispositions | T776, T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9929 | Total cost of all quota additions | T1175, T2042 |

| 9930 | Total proceeds from all quota dispositions | T1175, T2042 |

| 9931 | Total business liabilities | T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9932 | Drawings in the current year | T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9933 | Capital contributions in the current year | T1175, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9934 | Adjustment to business-use-of-home expenses | T1163, T1273 |

| 9936 | Total capital cost allowance | T776 |

| 9936 | Capital cost allowance | T1163, T1273, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9937 | Mandatory inventory adjustments – prior year | T1163, T1273 |

| 9937 | Mandatory inventory adjustment included in the previous year | T2042 |

| 9938 | Optional inventory adjustments – prior year | T1163, T1273 |

| 9938 | Optional inventory adjustment included in the previous year | T2042 |

| 9940 | Other deductions | T1163, T1273 |

| 9941 | Optional inventory adjustment – current year | T1163, T1273 |

| 9941 | Optional inventory adjustment included in the current year | T2042 |

| 9942 | Mandatory inventory adjustment – current year | T1163, T1273 |

| 9942 | Mandatory inventory adjustment included in the current year | T2042 |

| 9943 | Partners – other expenses of the partner | T776 |

| 9943 | Other amounts deductible from your share of net partnership income (loss) | T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9944 | Net income (loss) after adjustments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9945 | Co-owners – other deductible expenses | T776 |

| 9945 | Work-space-in-the-home expenses | T777 |

| 9945 | Business-use-of-home expenses | T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9946 | Your net income (loss) | T776, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

| 9946 | Net farming income (loss) | T1163, T1273 |

| 9947 | Recaptured capital cost allowance | T776 |

| 9948 | Terminal loss | T776 |

| 9949 | Total for personal portion | T776 |

| 9950 | Total A: Total of commodity sales and program payments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9951 | Return of fuel charge proceeds to farmers tax credit allocated to partnerships | T1163, T1273, T2042 |

| 9953 | Private insurance premiums for allowable commodities | T1163, T1273 |

| 9954 | Proceeds of disposition | T1255, T2091 |

| 9955 | Year of acquisition | T1255, T2091 |

| 9956 | Total number of years designated | T1255, T2091 |

| 9959 | Gross farming income | T1163, T1273 |

| 9960 | Total C: Total of commodity purchases and repayment of program benefits | T1163, T1273 |

| 9968 | Total expenses | T1163, T1273 |

| 9969 | Net income (loss) before adjustments | T1163, T1273 |

| 9973 | Artists’ employment expenses | T777 |

| 9974 | Partners – GST/HST rebate for partners received in the year | T776 |

| 9974 | GST/HST rebate for partners received in the year | T1163, T1273, T2042, T2121, T2125 |

### Appendix H – Working beneficiaries with pensionable employment earnings

A taxpayer is considered a CPP working beneficiary and is required to make CPP contributions in the tax year if they met all of the following conditions:

- They were 60 to 70 years of age

- They received a CPP or QPP retirement pension

- They had employment and/or self-employment income

However, if the taxpayer was at least 65 years of age but under 70 years of age, they can elect to stop paying CPP contributions.

When there is an election in the tax year, the taxpayer will stop making CPP contributions starting with the election effective month.

**Example 1:**

- The election effective date on record is April 2021. The taxpayer files a 2021 return with CPP contributions.

- The system will calculate CPP contribution for January to March. The proration factor of 3/12 will be used.

- For elections made in December of the tax year, the effective date will be January of the following year. The taxpayer may also revoke in this subsequent year, meaning the system will calculate CPP contributions using both the election and revocation effective dates.

**Example 2:**

- The election effective date on record is January 2021, meaning an election was made in December 2020. Therefore, a revocation can be made in 2021. The revocation effective date on record is June 2021.

- The system will calculate CPP contributions for June to December. The proration factor of 7/12 will be used.

**Example 3:**

- The 68 year old taxpayer works in and out of Quebec. He is in receipt of CPP retirement benefits and has a CPT30 election on record with an effective date of April 2021.

- The taxpayer files a 2021 return with CPP and QPP contributions indicated on Form RC381.

- The system will calculate QPP contributions based on the QPP pensionable earnings on line 50329, for the entire year.

- The system will calculate CPP contributions for January to March. The proration factor of 3/12 will be used.

- When there is a relevant revocation in the tax year, the taxpayer will start paying CPP contributions in the revocation effective month.

**Example 4:**

- There is a relevant revocation effective date on record of April 2021. The taxpayer files a 2021 return with CPP contributions.

- The system will calculate CPP contributions for April to December. The proration factor of 9/12 will be used.

### Appendix I – Spouse's or common-law partner's capital gain from mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions

Supporting line 52300 captures the spouse's or common-law partner's capital gain from mortgage foreclosures and conditional sales repossessions. This type of gain is excluded from the calculation of net income in order to determine the refundable medical expense supplement, the Canada workers benefit, and the low-income tax reduction for the provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and the British Columbia sales tax credit.

The amount on line 52300 is calculated as follows:

- If there is no amount on line 12700, line 52300 is equal to zero.

- If there is an amount on line 12700, the following rules apply:

    1. If line 12400 and line 15500 are both less than or equal to zero, line 52300 is equal to zero.**See Example 1**.

    2. If line 12400 is less than or equal to zero but line 15500 is greater than zero, compare the taxable portion of the amount on line 15500 with the amount on line 12700:

          1. If the taxable portion is less than line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the taxable portion on line 15500.**See Example 2a**.

          2. If the taxable portion is greater than or equal to line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the amount on line 12700.**See Example 2b**.

    3. If line 12400 is greater than zero but line 15500 is less than or equal to zero, compare the taxable portion of the amount on line 12400 with the amount on line 12700:

          1. If the taxable portion is less than line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the taxable portion of line 12400.**See Example 3a.**

          2. If the taxable portion is greater than or equal to line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the amount on line 12700.**See Example 3b**.

    4. If line 12400 and line 15500 are both greater than zero, compare the taxable portion of the total of the amounts reported on these lines with the amount on line 12700:

          1. If the taxable portion is less than line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the taxable portion of the amounts on lines 12400 and 15500.**See Example 4a**.

          2. If the taxable portion is greater than or equal to line 12700, line 52300 is equal to the amount on line 12700.**See Example 4b**.

#### Example 1 – Line 12400 and line 15500 are both less than or equal to zero

Lines on the spouse's or common-law partner's Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = loss of $2,000

- Line 15500 = $0

- Line 12700 = $0

In this situation, no entry is required on line 52300 on the taxpayer’s return.

#### Example 2a – line 12400 is less than or equal to 0 but line 15500 is greater than zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = loss of $1,000

- Line 15500 = gain of $3,000

- Line 13200 = gain of $5,000

- Line 12700 = $3,500

The taxable portion on line 15500 is $1,500 (50% of $3,000). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 15500 and the amount on line 12700 is $1,500.

In this situation, line 52300 = $1,500.

#### Example 2b – line 12400 is less than or equal to 0 but line 15500 is greater than zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common-law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = loss of $1,000

- Line 15500 = gain of $5,000

- Line 13200 = loss of $2,000

- Line 12700 = $1,000

The taxable portion on line 15500 is $2,500 (50% of $5,000). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 15500 and the amount on line 12700 is $1,000.

In this situation, line 52300 = $1,000.

#### Example 3a – line 12400 is greater than 0 but line 15500 is less than or equal to zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common-law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = gain of $4,000

- Line 15500 = loss of $3,000

- Line 10700 = gain of $5,000

- Line 12700 = $3,000

The taxable portion on line 12400 is $2,000 (50% of $4,000). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 12400 and the amount on line 12700 is $2,000.

In this situation, line 52300 = $2,000.

#### Example 3b – line 12400 is greater than 0 but line 15500 is less than or equal to zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common-law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = gain of $30,000

- Line 15500 = loss of $10,000

- Line 13200 = gain of $5,000

- Line 12700 = $12,500

The taxable portion on line 12400 and line 15500 is $1,600 (50% of $3,200). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 12400 plus line 15500 and the amount on line 12700 is $1,600.

In this situation, line 52300 = $12,500.

#### Example 4a – line 12400 and line 15500 are both greater than zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common-law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = gain of $3,000

- Line 15500 = gain of $200

- Line 10700 = gain of $5,000

- Line 12700 = $4,100

The taxable portion on line 12400 and line 15500 is $1,600 (50% of $3,200). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 12400 plus line 15500 and the amount on line 12700 is $1,600.

In this situation, line 52300 = $1,600.

#### Example 4b – line 12400 and line 15500 are both greater than zero

Lines on the spouse’s or common-law partner’s Schedule 3:

- Line 12400 = gain of $35,000

- Line 15500 = gain of $15,000

- Line 13200 = loss of $10,000

- Line 12700 = $20,000

The taxable portion on line 12400 and line 15500 is $25,000 (50% of $50,000). The lesser of the taxable capital gain on line 12400 plus line 15500 and the amount on line 12700 is $20,000.

In this situation, line 52300 = $20,000.

### Appendix J – Net self-employment income (loss) adjustment amount

Supporting line 55320 is an adjustment line to be used when an individual has more than one business reported on one of the self-employment lines (13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, or 14300) and reports income from one, and a loss from another.

An individual’s “working income” or “earned income” is used in the calculation of the Canada workers benefit (CWB) and in part of the determination for eligibility requirement (i.e., minimum income threshold) for the refundable medical expense supplement (RMES). It should only include the net income (not loss) from each business. line 55320 is to be updated to equal the amount required to negate the loss. Otherwise, the individual’s claim for the CWB on line 45300 and the income threshold used to determine eligibility for their RMES on line 45200 will be based on the net amount reported on the self-employment lines.

For married or common-law couples, if Spouse A is claiming the CWB for both partners, as their working income is higher, line 55320 should still be updated on Spouse B’s return if it is applicable to their return, in case a spousal match is performed on the returns.

#### Example 1:

Sally operates Business A with a net income of $5,000 and Business B with a net loss of $3,000. This is Sally’s only source of income on her return.

- Line 13500 will be a net income of $2,000 ($5,000 minus $3,000). Enter this amount on line 9 of Schedule 6 under Part B – Adjusted family net income.

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $5,000 (from Business A). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $5,000 (line 5) minus $2,000 (line 13500) = $3,000. Therefore, line 55320 = $3,000.

For RMES purposes, Sally’s earned income will be $5,000 (line 13500 + line 55320). Therefore, she meets the minimum income required for the RMES. However, her net income of $2,000 on line 23600 will be used in the calculation of the credit on line 45200.

#### Example 2:

Doug operates Business A with a net income of $5,000 and Business B with a net loss of $8,000.

- Line 13500 will be a net loss of $3,000 ($5,000 minus $8,000).

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $5,000 (from Business A). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $5,000 (line 5) minus $0 (the loss on line 13500 is not used in the calculation) = $5,000. Therefore, line 55320 = $5,000.

#### Example 3:

John operates Farm A with a net income of $5,000, Farm B with a net income of $2,000, and Farm C with a net loss of $10,000.

- Line 14100 will be a loss of $3,000 ($5,000 plus $2,000 minus $10,000).

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $7,000 (from Farms A and B). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $7,000 (line 5) minus $0 (the loss on line 14100 is not used in the calculation) = $7,000. Therefore, line 55320 = $7,000.

#### Example 4:

Jennifer operates Business A with a net income of $5,000 and Business B with a net loss of $5,000.

- Line 13500 is considered to be zero.

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $5,000 (from Business A). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $5,000 (line 5) minus $0 (line 13500) = $5,000. Therefore, line 55320 = $5,000.

#### Example 5:

Peter operates Farm A with a net income of $5,000.

- Line 14100 will be a net income of $5,000.

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $5,000 (from Farm A). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $5,000 (line 5) minus $5,000 (line 14100) = $0. Therefore, line 55320 = $0.

#### Example 6:

Serge operates Farm A with a net income of $5,000. Serge also operates Business 1 with a net income of $2,000, and Business 2 with a net loss of $10,000.

- Line 14100 will be a net income of $5,000.

- Line 13500 will be a loss of $8,000 ($2,000 minus $10,000).

- The total self-employed income excluding losses is $7,000 (from Farm A and Business 1). Enter this amount on line 5 of Schedule 6 under Part A – Working income.

- $7,000 (line 5) minus $5,000 (line 14100) minus $0 = $2,000. Therefore, line 55320 = $2,000.

- Note that the loss on line 13500 is not used.

### Appendix K – Non-refundable tax credits for immigrants and emigrants

In the year of immigration or emigration, the taxpayer may be limited in the amount allowed for the following non-refundable tax credits.

| Line | Federal, provincial or territorial | Description |

| --- | --- | --- |

| 30000 | Federal | Basic personal amount |

| 30100 | Federal | Age amount |

| 30300 | Federal | Spouse or common-law partner amount |

| 30400 | Federal | Amount for an eligible dependant |

| 30425 | Federal | Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or eligible dependant age 18 or older |

| 30450 | Federal | Canada caregiver amount for other infirm dependants age 18 or older |

| 30500 | Federal | Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age |

| 31800 | Federal | Disability amount transferred from a dependant |

| 32400 | Federal | Tuition amount transferred from a child or grandchild |

| 32600 | Federal | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner |

| 58040 | All provinces and territories | Basic personal amount |

| 58080 | All provinces and territories | Age amount |

| 58120 | All provinces and territories | Spouse or common-law partner amount |

| 58160 | All provinces and territories | Amount for an eligible dependant |

| 58170 | YT only | Caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or eligible dependant age 18 or older |

| 58175 | BC only | British Columbia caregiver amount |

| 58180 | YT only | Caregiver amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older |

| 58185 | ON only | Ontario caregiver amount |

| 58189 | YT only | Caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age |

| 58200 | All provinces and territories, except ON, BC and YT | Amount for infirm dependants age 18 or older |

| 58210 | SK only | Amount for dependent children age 18 or younger |

| 58220 | SK only | Senior supplementary amount |

| 58230 | NU only | Amount for young children |

| 58400 | All provinces and territories, except ON, BC and YT | Caregiver amount |

| 58480 | All provinces and territories | Disability amount transferred from a dependant |

| 58600 | All provinces and territories, except ON, SK and AB | Tuition, (education) (and textbook) amounts transferred from a child or grandchild |

| 58640 | All provinces and territories | Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner |

| 61545 | AB only | Alberta supplemental tax credit |

An immigrant or emigrant must meet the 90% rule for the period of non-residency in order to be allowed the non-refundable tax credits in full. A taxpayer will meet the 90% rule if the Canadian-source income reported for the part of the year while not a resident of Canada is 90% or more of the net world income for that part of the year. The 90% rule is calculated as follows:

(Canadian-source non-resident income x 100%) ÷ (Net world non-resident income)

If a taxpayer does not meet the 90% rule, the above non-refundable tax credits must be prorated based on the immigration or emigration date.

For 2024 and subsequent tax years, if a part year resident has no world income during the non-resident period, they will not be considered to have met the 90% rule.

For more information, go to [canada.ca/taxes-international](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/international-non-residents/individuals-leaving-entering-canada-non-residents.html).
